March 6, 2018 / 8:27 PM / 4 months ago
# GRAPHIC-U.S. steel shares crawl back from financial crisis
    
        By Lewis Krauskopf
        NEW YORK, March 6 (Reuters) - President Donald Trump's plans
    to impose a 25 percent tariff on imported steel has shined a
    light on U.S. steel companies, whose shares have outperformed
    the overall market since Trump's election but as a group remain
    well below levels reached before the financial crisis a decade
    ago.
        The S&P; 1500 steel index               has climbed more than
    3 percent since Trump last week announced his plans to impose
    tariffs on imported steel and aluminum to protect U.S.
    producers, which set off fears of a global trade war and spooked
    the broad stock market.             
        The past few days have been bumpy for steel stocks, given
    uncertainty about the timing and extent of the tariffs as Trump
    faces growing pressure from political and diplomatic allies as
    well as U.S. companies urging him to pull back.             
        Investors are accustomed to volatility for the stocks. The
    sector has climbed more than 40 percent since Trump's November
    2016 election, compared with a 27 percent rise for the benchmark
    S&P; 500 index       , but it has taken a roller-coaster path
    over that time.
        The potential for increased spending on U.S. infrastructure
    under Trump fueled a rise in the shares in the aftermath of the
    election. But their performance has wobbled as prospects for an
    infrastructure package waned last year, along with uncertainty
    over protectionist measures.  
        Much of the gains for steel stocks are due to improved
    overall industry conditions, according to analysts, including
    higher prices, with the global economy strengthening and China
    reducing its steel production.
        "The initial rally happened because he talked about
    infrastructure," said David Lipschitz, an analyst with Macquarie
    Capital. "Up until the tariff talk recently, prices in the U.S.
    have rallied nicely because international prices have had a nice
    rally. China has taken capacity off line."
        Despite its run, the S&P; 1500 steel index remains more than
    45 percent below levels reached in mid-2008, before the
    financial crisis took hold, even as the broad market has marched
    to record highs.
        The sector's rise in the mid-2000s came amid strength in the
    U.S. economy including non-residential building as well as a
    surge in construction in China, analysts said.
        "When the stocks really, really surged, there was a belief
    last time that it was going to go on forever, that China was
    going to continue to build and build and build," said Philip
    Gibbs, an analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets. "Their growth
    rates have definitely slowed dramatically since that time
    period."
        The stocks were crushed during the global financial crisis
    as commodity prices tumbled along with equity markets. Demand
    for steel dropped as construction and auto markets weakened.
        Shares of Nucor Corp        , the largest company in the
    13-component steel index by market value and the only steel
    stock in the S&P; 500, remain about 20 percent below levels
    reached in mid-2008. U.S. Steel Corp      , which traded as high
    as $196 a share in 2008, now trades at around $44.
        "It's gotten better. It's not where it was in the
    mid-2000s," Lipschitz said. "We are still significantly below
    from a demand perspective (for construction)."
        The steel index has performed well since Trump said in
    mid-February he was considering tariffs.
        Gibbs said tariffs could provide a "sugar high" for the
    stocks but that improved pricing could be short lived while
    higher prices also could hurt demand from manufacturers and
    could lead to more supply.
        "Investors are likely juggling the prospect for higher
    near-term pricing, but with a view that it is unsustainable and
    weighing against (potential) demand erosion," Gibbs said. 
    
        
     (Reporting by Lewis Krauskopf
    Editing by Alden Bentley and Chizu Nomiyama)
      
