July 17, 2018 / 7:22 AM / 2 days ago
# METALS-London copper rebounds on low inventories, technicals
    
     (Updates prices)
        By Naveen Thukral
        SINGAPORE, July 17 (Reuters) - London copper futures bounced
    back on Tuesday underpinned by low inventories and technical
    support, but concerns of slowing growth in top metals consumer
    China limited gains.
        Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange         was
    up 0.4 percent at $6,216 a tonne as of 0706 GMT and the
    most-traded copper contract on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
             finished down 0.4 percent to 48,810 yuan ($7,307.21) a
    tonne.
        
        INVENTORIES: Headline stocks of copper in LME-registered
    warehouses gained 1,525 tonnes to 257,200 tonnes, but were still
    at their lowest since January. MCUSTX-TOTAL
        SUPPLIES: There was additional support for the copper market
    stemming from expectations of output disruption.
        ESCONDIDA: "Copper held up relatively well, as the
    possibility of supply disruption in Chile was back in the
    headlines," ANZ said in a note. "Workers at BHP's Escondida
    copper mine rejected the company's first formal wage offer. The
    two parties are expected to head back to the negotiating table
    later this week."             
        TECHNICALS: LME copper is poised to break a resistance at
    $6,260 per tonne and rise more towards $6,370, as suggested by
    its wave pattern and a retracement analysis, according to Wang
    Tao, Reuters analyst for commodities and energy technicals.  
                
        GROWTH: China's economy expanded at a slower pace in the
    second quarter as Beijing's efforts to contain debt hurt
    activity, while June factory output growth weakened to a
    two-year low in a worrying sign for investment and exporters as
    a trade war with the United States intensified.             
        TRADE WAR: China's commerce ministry said on Monday it had
    filed a complaint to the World Trade Organization (WTO)
    regarding Washington's proposed tariff list on $200 billion
    worth of Chinese goods on July 16.             
        INVESTORS: Copper speculators switched to a net short
    position of 12,919 contracts, the Commodity Futures Trading
    Commission said last week, the weakest position since December
    2016.             
        ALUMINIUM SUPPLY: China's aluminium producers are responding
    to tighter supply conditions by boosting output, data showed.
    China's June output rose by 0.8 percent to 2.83 million tonnes,
    which on a daily basis was the highest since June 2017,
    according to Reuters' calculations based on official data.
        ZINC: Shanghai zinc futures          finished down 2.5
    percent and lead          dived 2.1 percent on worries over
    Washington-Beijing trade war curbing demand. 
        
        PRICES    
        Three month LME copper                  
        Most active ShFE copper                  
        Three month LME aluminium               
        Most active ShFE aluminium               
        Three month LME zinc                    
        Most active ShFE zinc                    
        Three month LME lead                    
        Most active ShFE lead                    
        Three month LME nickel                 
        Most active ShFE nickel                   
        Three month LME tin                     
        Most active ShFE tin                             
        
        ARBS
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
    ($1 = 6.6797 Chinese yuan renminbi)
    
        
     (Reporting by Naveen Thukral, Editing by Sherry Jacob-Phillips
    and Vyas Mohan)
      
     
     
