November 20, 2017 / 3:34 AM / 8 months ago
# Morning News Call - India, November 20
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        10:45 am: Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari, IL&FS; Transportation Networks MD
    K. Ramchand, NITI Aayog Advisor Anil Srivastav, Mahindra Electric Mobility CEO
    Mahesh Babu at Smart Mobility Conference in New Delhi.
        11:00 am: Minister of State for Space and Atomic Energy Jitendra Singh,
    Bharat Electronics CMD M. V. Gowtama, Larsen & Toubro Product and Technology
    Vice-President Arun Ramachandani at Indian Space Programme in New Delhi.
    
        
        LIVECHAT - ZIMBABWE FOCUS.
        Independent geo-strategic analyst and Geopolitical Monitor contributor Neil
    Thompson joins us at 12:30 pm IST to discuss the political fate of Zimbabwe
    after the country's military seized power last week saying it was holding
    President Robert Mugabe  and his family safe while targeting "criminals" in the
    entourage of the man whohas ruled the nation since independence 37 years ago. To
    join the conversation, click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • Indian bond market euphoria seen short-lived as mood bearish prevails
        Bond market euphoria over an unexpected India sovereign rating upgrade is
    expected to fizzle out, as concern over rising inflation, hawkish central bank
    rhetoric and fiscal discipline resurfaces.
        • HDFC Life shares buck trend, soar on debut after $1.3 billion IPO 
        HDFC Standard Life Insurance Co's shares soared by more than a fifth in
    their trading debut on Friday after a $1.3 billion initial public offering,
    bucking a trend of tepid market debuts by Indian insurers due to worries over
    their valuations.
        • NHPC could bid for Nepal's $2.5 billion power project pulled from China
        Indian power company NHPC Ltd could bid for a $2.5 billion hyrdropower
    project in Nepal, its chairman told Reuters, after Kathmandu cancelled a deal
    with China Gezhouba Group Corp.
        • Indian state oil firms betting on natural gas as next big thing
        India's state oil refiners are planning an aggressive push into natural gas
    in coming years to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi's goal of making the fuel a
    bigger part of the country's energy mix.
        • SEBI to investigate possible leaks of company earnings
        The Securities and Exchange Board of India will investigate possible leaks
    of company earnings in social media chatrooms, its chief Ajay Tyagi said on
    Friday, following a Reuters report this week that revealed prescient messages
    being posted in private groups.
        • L&T; wins $1.3 billion construction contract - statement
        India's top engineering and construction company Larsen & Toubro Ltd has
    secured a contract to build a $1.3 billion Mumbai Trans Harbour Link, the
    company said in a statement, in a big boost for the firm.
        • India raises import tax on edible oils to highest in a decade
        India has raised import tax on edible oil to the highest level in more than
    a decade, the government said in an order, as the world's biggest importer of
    edible oils tries to support its farmers.
        • Aircel delays debt servicing, says ratings agency
        Indian mobile carrier Aircel Ltd has delayed servicing its debt obligations,
    a ratings agency said, adding to the woes of the country's telecoms sector that
    has been rattled by a price war and high debt levels.
    
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • President Mugabe stuns Zimbabwe by defying pressure to resign
        President Robert Mugabe stunned Zimbabwe on Sunday by making no mention of
    resignation in a television address, defying his own ZANU-PF party, which had
    sacked him hours earlier, and hundreds of thousands of protesters who had
    already hailed his downfall.
        • Toshiba shares drop after plan to issue $5.4 billion in new shares
        Shares of Toshiba Corp fell, a day after the troubled conglomerate said it
    would raise 600 billion yen from a sale of new shares in a key step that would
    allow it to stay publicly traded.
        • Alibaba goes offline with $2.9 billion stake in China's top grocer
        Internet giant Alibaba Group Holding Ltd said it would invest HK$22.4
    billion for a major stake in China's top hypermart operator, Sun Art Retail
    Group Ltd, part of a wider push into offline retail.
    
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • The SGX Nifty Futures were trading at 10,280.50, trading down 0.2 percent
    from its previous close.
        • Indian government bonds are likely to rise in early trade after the
    Reserve Bank of India scrapped an open market sale of bonds scheduled for this
    week. The yield on the benchmark 6.79 percent bond maturing in 2027 is likely to
    trade in a 7.01 percent-7.06 percent band. 
        • The Indian rupee will likely open little changed against the dollar, in
    line with most Asian currencies, as German Chancellor Angela Merkel's failed
    attempt to form a three-way coalition government increased Eurozone political
    concerns, weighing on euro and lifting the greenback.
    
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • Wall Street ended the week on a sour note on Friday, with major indexes
    slipping modestly as investors weighed the fate of the Republicans' tax overhaul
    plan.
        • Asian shares started the week on the back foot, pressured by a retreat on
    Wall Street amid tax reform uncertainty while the euro skidded after German
    coalition talks hit an impasse.
        • The euro hit a two-month low against the yen, as German Chancellor Angela
    Merkel's efforts to form a three-way coalition government failed, raising
    concerns over political uncertainty in the euro zone's largest economy.
        • U.S. Treasury yields edged lower on Friday, in line with weakness on Wall
    Street and declines in German 10-year bond yields, as the yield curve continued
    to flatten following strong U.S. housing starts data for October.
        • Oil markets were tepid as traders were reluctant to take on big new
    positions ahead of an OPEC meeting at the end of the month, when the producer
    club is expected to decide whether to continue output cuts aimed at propping up
    prices.
        • Gold prices dipped, weighed down by a stronger U.S. dollar, but held close
    to a one-month high hit in the previous session.
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES     DEBT
     PNDF spot         64.94/64.97  November 17      $196.43 mln  -$97.06 mln
     10-yr bond yield   -           Month-to-date    $2.21 bln    -$426.47 mln
                                    Year-to-date     $7.86 bln    $25.25 bln
     
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
        
        ($1 = 65.01 Indian rupees)
        
    
     (Compiled by Shradha Singh in Bengaluru)
      
