March 19, 2018 / 3:40 AM / 4 months ago
# Morning News Call - India, March 19
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        11:00 am: Budget session of Parliament continues in New Delhi.
        11:30 am: MG Motor India MD Rajeev Chaba to brief on company's plans for
    Indian market in New Delhi.
        05:30 pm: Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Council Chairman and NITI Aayog
    member Bibek Debroy to address annual general meeting of ICC India in New Delhi.
    
        
        GMF: LIVECHAT - FX WEEK AHEAD 
        FX Buzz analyst Jeremy Boulton analyses G7 currencies at 4:30 PM IST. To
    join the conversation, click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        India's Edelweiss scraps deal to buy Religare's securities unit 
        India's Edelweiss Financial Services' agreed acquisition of the securities
    business of Religare Enterprises has fallen through because Religare failed to
    get the necessary regulatory approvals, the suitor said on Friday.
        
        India's Oct-Dec current a/c deficit widens sharply on higher imports
        India's October-December current account deficit widened sharply from a year
    earlier, driven by higher imports, data from the Reserve Bank of India showed on
    Friday.
        
        DP World buys stakes in Peru's No. 2 container terminal, India logistics
    firm
        DP World , one of the world's largest port operators, said on Sunday it had
    bought a logistics firm in Peru for $315.7 million, giving it a 50 percent stake
    in the country's second largest container terminal.
        
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        Putin wins another six years at Russia's helm in landslide victory
        Russian President Vladimir Putin won a landslide re-election victory on
    Sunday, extending his rule over the world's largest country for another six
    years at a time when his ties with the West are on a hostile trajectory.
    
        
        U.S. tariffs, China trade tensions overshadow G20 finance meeting
        Worries about the potential for a U.S.-China trade war and frustration over
    U.S. President Donald Trump's steel and aluminum tariffs threatened to dominate
    a gathering of finance leaders this week amid strengthening growth.
        
        China president's confidante Liu He nominated as a vice premier, Yi Gang as
    PBOC chief
        Liu He, a key economic adviser to China's President Xi Jinping, was
    nominated to be a vice premier, while vice central bank governor Yi Gang was
    nominated to take over the helm at the People's Bank of China (PBOC).
    
    
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        The SGX Nifty March Futures were trading at 10,206, down 0.3 pct from
    previous close.
        
         The Indian rupee is likely to fall against the dollar as regional
    currencies began the week on a defensive note ahead of a Federal Reserve
    meeting.
        
        Indian government bonds are likely to edge lower on profit booking amid
    concerns that the U.S. Federal Reserve may hike its policy rate later this week.
    The yield on the benchmark 7.17 pct bond maturing in 2028 is likely to trade in
    7.55 pct-7.62 pct band today.
    
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • The S&P; 500 and the Dow Industrials rose on Friday, boosted by strong
    industrial output numbers, though all three of Wall Street's major indexes
    posted losses for the week.
        • Asian share markets slipped into the red as caution gripped investors in a
    week in which the Federal Reserve is likely to hike U.S. interest rates and
    perhaps signal that as many as three more lie in store for the rest of the
    year.
        • The dollar started the week little changed as traders set sights on new
    Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell's first monetary policy meeting later in the
    week and as the increased threat of trade protectionism kept markets on
    edge.
        • Yields rose on Friday after data showed U.S. industrial production surged
    in February and in anticipation of next week's Federal Open Market Committee
    meeting, at which the U.S. central bank is expected to raise interest rates for
    the first time this year.
        • Oil prices fell as rising drilling activity in the United States pointed
    to further increases in output, raising concerns about a return of
    oversupply.
        • Gold prices inched lower as the dollar remained supported, with investors
    expecting the U.S. Federal Reserve to raise interest rates at this week's policy
    meeting.
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES   DEBT
     PNDF spot         64.90/64.93  March 16         --         $40.97 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.61 pct     Month-to-date    $1.25 bln  -$1.26 bln
                                    Year-to-date     $1.35 bln  -$167.71 mln
     
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
     
    
     (Compiled by Nachiket Tekawade in Bengaluru)
      
