July 13, 2018 / 3:20 AM / 6 days ago
# Morning News Call - India, July 13
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        10:00 am: Bank of Baroda annual general meeting in Vadodara.
        10:30 am: Bank of India annual general meeting in Mumbai.
        11:00 am: Commerce and Civil Aviation Minister Suresh Prabhu at an event in
    Mumbai.
        5:00 pm: RBI to release weekly foreign exchange data in Mumbai.
        
        LIVECHAT - FRIDAY ASIA QUIZ
        Test your wits and googling speed in the Asia edition of the Friday quiz at
    1130 am IST. To join the conversation, click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • India's falling rupee pushes retail inflation to five-month high in June
        India's annual retail inflation accelerated to a five-month high in June,
    driven by a weakening rupee as well as surging oil prices, bolstering the chance
    the central bank will again raise interest rates in coming months.
        • Fortis accepts $584 million stake deal from Malaysia's IHH Healthcare
        Fortis Healthcare said it accepted an investment offer from Malaysia's IHH
    Healthcare Bhd, capping a months-long bidding war for control of the firm that
    drew interest from domestic and international suitors.
        • EXCLUSIVE-With U.S. trade under a cloud, China opens to Indian pharma
        China is preparing to give swift regulatory approvals to India-manufactured
    drugs, the head of an Indian export promotion group said, as Beijing looks for
    new commercial partners ahead of what could be a protracted trade war with the
    United States.
        • Iran says will strive to ensure oil supplies to India
        Iran will do its best to ensure security of oil supply to India by offering
    "flexible measures" to boost bilateral trade, a statement from Tehran's embassy
    in New Delhi said.
        
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • U.S. Justice Dept to appeal approval of AT&T; acquisition of Time Warner
        The U.S. Justice Department said on Thursday it would appeal a federal
    judge's approval of AT&T;'s $85.4 billion acquisition of Time Warner, raising the
    prospect barely a month after the deal closed that it could be undone.
    
        • Chinese imports to U.S. ports start peaking early amid tariff threat
        Chinese imports to U.S. ports rose more than expected in June, suggesting
    that some retailers moved up orders to insulate themselves from an intensifying
    trade war that threatens to send up costs on a growing number of consumer
    products.
        • Trump blasts UK PM May's Brexit plan, says it puts trade deal in doubt
        U.S. President Donald Trump said a free trade deal with Britain might be
    impossible if London went ahead with Prime Minister Theresa May's proposals for
    post-Brexit ties with the European Union, in damaging remarks that could widen
    domestic criticism of her plans.
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were trading at 11,049.50, up 0.3 percent
    from previous close.
        • The Indian rupee will likely open higher against the dollar, buoyed by a
    recovery in most regional currencies and lower-than-expected June retail
    inflation at home. 
        • The Indian government bonds are likely to open little changed, as
    slower-than-expected pace of rise in June retail inflation may delay potential
    rate hikes. The yield on the benchmark 7.17 percent bond maturing in 2028 is
    likely to trade in a 7.74 percent - 7.82 percent band till the bond auction
    today.
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • U.S. stock futures rose to a five-month high, extending their recent rally
    on expectations of solid earnings growth among U.S. firms despite threats from
    trade wars.
        • Asian shares were higher following gains on Wall Street overnight, as
    concerns over an escalating U.S. trade war with China took a breather.
    
        • The dollar held firm near a 10-day high boosted by expectations U.S.
    inflation will pick up, although concerns about an escalation in U.S.-China
    trade tensions limited the greenback's gains.
        • U.S. Treasury yields edged higher on Thursday as economic data showed U.S.
    inflation buildup remained modest and labor markets were strong, reinforcing
    expectations the Federal Reserve will maintain its rate increase schedule.
        • Oil prices edged lower and were set for a second weekly fall, as the
    market shrugged off a warning that spare capacity may be stretched as OPEC and
    Russia increase production.
        • Gold prices were muted as the dollar extended gains from the previous
    session when strong U.S. inflation data and trade war concerns boosted demand
    for the greenback.
        
        
                       CLOSE       FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES      DEBT
     PNDF spot         68.57/68.6  July 12          -$108.50 mln  -$163.98 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.78 pct    Month-to-date    -$35.08 mln   -$158.78 mln
                                   Year-to-date     -$822.51 mln  -$5.94 bln
        
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
     
    
    ($1 = 68.4800 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Swathi Nair in Bengaluru)
      
