May 17, 2018 / 3:06 AM / 2 months ago
# Morning News Call - India, May 17
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        9:30 am: Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari and Steel Secretary Aruna Sharma
    at an event in New Delhi.
        11:00 am: Parliament panel on finance likely to meet RBI Governor Urjit
    Patel and finance ministry officials in New Delhi.
        
        LIVECHAT - COMMODITIES FOCUS 
        Clyde Russell, Reuters Asia Commodities and Energy Columnist speaks on the
    subject at 9:30 am. To join the conversation, click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • Tata Steel profit lifted by one-off UK pension gain
        Tata Steel was helped to a quarterly profit of 146.88 billion rupees by a
    one-off pensions gain, in contrast with an 11.68 billion rupee loss a year
    earlier.
        • India's Infosys sets up blockchain-based trade finance network with seven
    banks
        Infosys has formed a blockchain-based trade finance network with seven
    private-sector banks, to increase security and efficiency in the banking sector
    while also broadening its product offering.
        • Former Indian central bank boss says won't apply for top BoE job 
        Former Reserve Bank of India chief Raghuram Rajan said on Wednesday he did
    not intend to apply for the job of Bank of England governor which is due to come
    vacant next year.
        • India police charge jeweller Choksi, others in PNB fraud case 
        Indian federal police have filed charges against five further people
    including jeweller Mehul Choksi as part of a probe into an alleged $2 billion
    fraud at state-run Punjab National Bank, two police sources said.
        • JSW Steel posts record quarterly profit 
        JSW Steel posted record quarterly net profit on Wednesday, nearly tripling
    from last year, largely beating market estimates thanks to higher commodity
    prices and spreads.
        • TVS Motor Co Q4 profit up 31 percent, lags Street 
        TVS Motor posted an about 31 percent increase in quarterly profit on
    Wednesday, helped by higher vehicle sales at home and growth in exports, but
    missed analysts' estimates.
        • ITC Q4 profit rises 10 percent; beats estimates 
        India's biggest cigarette maker ITC posted a better-than-expected quarterly
    profit on Wednesday, helped by a fall in excise duty.
        • Hindalco Industries Q4 profit dives 25 percent, lags estimate 
        Aluminium producer Hindalco Industries posted a 25 percent fall in its
    fourth-quarter profit, widely missing street estimate.
        
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • Trump says 'We'll see' on N.Korea summit, to insist on denuclearization
        U.S. President Donald Trump acknowledged on Wednesday it was unclear if his
    summit with North Korea would go ahead after Pyongyang threatened to pull out of
    the unprecedented meeting, a move that could deny him a potentially major
    foreign policy achievement.
        • U.S., China to launch trade talks; China hawk Navarro's role reduced
    -officials
        The United States and China launch trade talks on Thursday in a bid to avert
    a damaging tariff war, with the White House's harshest China critic relegated to
    a supporting role, senior Trump administration officials said on Wednesday.
    
        • Malaysia police seize handbags, other personal items from ex-PM's home
        Malaysian police seized handbags and few other personal items from the home
    of former prime minister Najib Razak in connection with a money laundering
    probe, a lawyer of the ex-leader said.
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were trading almost flat at 10,768.50.
        • Indian government bonds are likely to fall in early trade tracking sharp
    overnight gains in U.S. Treasury yields and crude oil prices. The yield on the
    benchmark 7.17 percent bond maturing in 2028 is likely to trade in 7.90
    percent-7.96 percent band today. 
        • The Indian rupee will likely open higher against the dollar amid a mild
    recovery in emerging market currencies. 
    
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • Retail and technology stocks led Wall Street higher on Wednesday and the
    small-cap Russell 2000 hit a record peak, even as a rise in U.S. bond yields to
    an almost seven-year high suggested more competition for equities and investors
    fretted over geopolitics.
        • Asian shares held steady, while the euro struggled near five-month lows
    set a day earlier following a report that Italian populist parties trying to
    form a coalition could ask the European Central Bank to forgive 250 billion
    euros of debt.
        • The dollar stood tall against a basket of currencies, as the euro
    retreated to a five-month low on concerns the political developments in Italy
    could cause wider disruptions in the common currency bloc.
        • U.S. Treasury yields rose on Wednesday as the 10-year yield reached
    seven-year highs and tested key technical support at 3.10 percent, which may
    touch off another wave of bond sales if it rises much further above that level.
    
        • Oil prices firmed, with Brent crude creeping ever closer to $80 per
    barrel, a level it has not seen since November 2014, as supplies tighten while
    demand remains strong.
        • Gold prices were mostly steady after touching their lowest level this year
    in the previous session, with the U.S. dollar hovering below its
    2018-peak.
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES      DEBT
     PNDF spot         67.91/67.94  May 16           -$103.14 mln  -$143.83 mln
     10-yr bond yield  8.07 pct     Month-to-date    -$415.81 mln  -$1.58 bln
                                    Year-to-date     $766.24 mln   -$3.25 bln
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
        
        ($1 = 67.7700 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Erum Khaled in Bengaluru)
      
