June 22, 2018 / 3:18 AM / a month ago
# Morning News Call - India, June 22
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
    here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        10:30 am: Economic Affairs Secretary Subhash Chandra Garg and State Bank of
    India Chairman Rajnish Kumar at FICCI-EBRD Business Forum in Mumbai.
        5:00 pm: RBI to release weekly foreign exchange data in Mumbai.
        
        LIVECHAT - QUIZ EAST
        Our Friday quiz focuses on Asia and the week's top news at 1100 IST. Test
    your wits and googling speed. To join the conversation, click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • Thyssenkrupp workers, some investors give CEO time for Tata Steel deal
    Thyssenkrupp workers and a group representing some of the steelmaker's investors
    offered its chief executive more time to finalise a planned joint venture deal
    with Tata Steel on Thursday.
        • India, top buyer of U.S. almonds, hits back with higher duties
        India, the world's biggest buyer of U.S. almonds, raised import duties on
    the commodity by 20 percent, a government order said, joining the European Union
    and China in retaliating against President Donald Trump's tariff hikes on steel
    and aluminium.
        • EXCLUSIVE-JSW Steel plans bid for ArcelorMittal's Romanian plant
        India's biggest steelmaker JSW Steel is expected to make a bid for
    ArcelorMittal's Galati plant in Romania, three sources told Reuters, potentially
    competing against Ukraine's Metinvest and Italy's Marcegaglia.
        • Bank of Maharashtra sanctioned loans to defaulting firm-document
        The chief executive of state-run Bank of Maharashtra sanctioned a 100
    million rupee loan to a real estate firm which had defaulted on payments to
    investors, according to a court document on the latest probe into loan fraud at
    Indian banks.
        • Shares in PNB fall after internal probe finds widespread lapses
        Shares in India's Punjab National Bank fell as much as 3 percent on
    Thursday, a day after Reuters reported the bank's internal investigation into
    its $2 billion fraud had found widespread risk-control and monitoring lapses in
    many areas of the bank.
        • SEBI to act against entities in NSE probe over servers
        India's market regulator said on Thursday it will initiate action against
    entities and individuals following an investigation at the National Stock
    Exchange (NSE) into whether high frequency traders were getting unfair access to
    some network servers at the exchange.
        • Swiggy raises additional $210 mln funding led by Naspers, DST Global
        Online food delivery service provider Swiggy said on Thursday it raised
    another $210 million in its biggest ever funding, led by South African internet
    and entertainment group Naspers and Hong Kong-based internet investment group
    DST Global.
        • Rat breaches bank ATM in India, eats $18,000 worth of cash
        When bank technicians in India were finally summoned to investigate why an
    ATM (automated teller machine) had not been working for days, they began to
    smell a rat.
        
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • Low inflation: Japan's May data shows BOJ stimulus barely moving price
    dial
    Japan's core inflation remained subdued in May, yet again highlighting how far
    off the central bank is in hitting its 2 percent price goal despite over five
    years of massive stimulus.
        • German carmakers join American farmers on front line of U.S.-China trade
    war
    An increasingly shrill exchange of words between the United States and China
    that is threatening to trigger a global trade war has claimed another victim -
    Germany's auto sector.
        • U.S. military may house immigrant children as Trump policy beset by
    confusion
        The U.S. military has been asked to get ready to house up to 20,000
    immigrant children, officials said on Thursday, as President Donald Trump's
    efforts to roll back a widely condemned policy of separating children from their
    parents were beset by confusion.
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • The SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were trading down 0.2 perceny at
    10,710.
        • The Indian rupee is expected to open higher against the dollar as fall in
    Treasury yields and tepid economic data led to broad-based weakness in the U.S.
    currency.
        • Indian government bonds will likely edge lower in early trade tracking
    gains in crude oil prices ahead of a key meeting of the Organization of the
    Petroleum Exporting Countries. The yield on the benchmark 7.17 percent bond
    maturing in 2028 is likely to trade in a 7.76 percent - 7.83 percent band today.
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • U.S. stocks fell on Thursday, with the Dow slumping for an eighth straight
    decline as industrials wobbled again on trade war concerns while Amazon and
    other online retailers weakened after a U.S. Supreme Court ruling on state sales
    tax collection.
        • Asian shares were under pressure on signs U.S. trade battles with China
    and many other countries are starting to chip away at corporate profits, with
    oil prices choppy ahead of major producers meeting to discuss raising
    output.
        • The dollar fell from an 11-month peak against a basket of major currencies
    as investors took profits, while sterling rebounded from a seven-month low after
    a slightly hawkish tilt from the Bank of England surprised the market.
        • U.S. Treasury yields fell on Thursday on worries about a continuing U.S.
    trade battle with China that prompted German carmaker Daimler to cut its 2018
    profit forecast, and as U.S. data fell below expectations.
        • Oil prices rose by more than 1 percent, pushed up by uncertainty over
    whether OPEC would manage to agree a production increase at a meeting in Vienna
    later in the day.
        • Gold prices inched up after hitting a 6-month low the session before, with
    the dollar retreating from an 11-month peak.
        
        
            
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES      DEBT
     PNDF spot         68.16/68.19  June 21          $165.88 mln   -$134.39 mln
     10-yr bond yield  8.02 pct     Month-to-date    -$901.77 mln  -$1.32 bln
                                    Year-to-date     -$1.15 bln    -$5.54 bln
        
        
           
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
     
    
    ($1 = 67.9400 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Swathi Nair in Bengaluru)
      
