March 15, 2018 / 3:28 AM / 4 months ago
# Morning News Call - India, March 15
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        10:30 am: Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan to brief media and inaugurate
    Celebration of World Consumer Rights Day in New Delhi.
        11:00 am: Budget session of Parliament continues in New Delhi.
        12:00 pm: Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority Chairman Hemant
    Contractor in an interactive meeting on National Pension Systems in Mumbai.
        12:15 pm: ICICI Securities Chairperson Chanda Kochhar to give details about
    its forthcoming IPO in Mumbai.
        12:30 pm: Benara Bearings and Pistons to announce details of its upcoming
    SME IPO in Mumbai.
        5:00 pm: Bharat Dynamics IPO subscription closes in Mumbai.
        
        TRADING INDIA FORUM - TOP SMALLCAPS BETS
        In a 1 year horizon, the BSE small caps index (+28%) has outperformed both
    the BSE midcap (+20%) and BSE sensex (+16%). While returns look great in a bull
    market, it may not be so during sharp drawdowns. How does one pick a small cap
    and which are the next multi-baggers? Anil Rupani, director of Arm research and
    expert at investing in micro caps will speak on the subject. To join the
    conversation, click on the link: here
        
        LIVECHAT - MARKETS INSIGHT
        Dhaval Joshi, Senior Vice President, European Invesment Strategy at BCA
    Research joins for a look at the markets at 1530 IST. To join the conversation,
    click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • India needs 8 percent growth for 30 years to join middle-income group -
    World Bank
        India's economy needs to grow 8 percent and higher a year for the next three
    decades to join the ranks of middle-income countries, which would require major
    reforms in the land, labour and financial sectors, the World Bank said on
    Wednesday.
        • Central bank chief calls for more powers over state lenders in wake of
    fraud
        The central bank chief said on Wednesday that it had "very limited
    authority" over state-run banks and called for reforms to give the regulator
    more powers to police such lenders in the wake of a $2 billion
    fraud.
        • February wholesale inflation eases for third straight month
        India's annual wholesale price inflation eased for the third straight month
    in February after touching an eight-month high in November, helped by a softer
    rise in food and fuel prices, government data showed on Wednesday.
        • U.S. challenges Indian export subsidies at WTO -official
        The United States launched a challenge to Indian export subsidies at the
    World Trade Organization on Wednesday, saying they hurt U.S. companies by
    letting Indian exporters sell goods more cheaply, U.S. Trade Representative
    Robert Lighthizer said.
        • Importers face funding crunch with clampdown on credit guarantees
        The Indian central bank's move to cut off a key form of trade finance in the
    aftermath of a multi-billion dollar fraud could both dent the rupee and sharply
    raise costs for many importers, bankers and traders said.
        • ICICI Securities IPO seeks up to $620 million, adding to a busy March
        Brokerage ICICI Securities will launch an initial public offering next week
    in a sale that will raise its parent as much as $620 million, adding to a busy
    month for first-time share sales in the country.
        • New Tata Steel UK pension scheme to be set up after meeting minimum
    criteria
        A new pension fund backed by Tata Steel UK, a unit of India's Tata Steel,
    will be set up after meeting minimum size and funding criteria, paving the way
    for the firm's merger with Germany's Thyssenkrupp.
        
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • Trump picks TV commentator Kudlow to succeed Cohn as economic adviser
        U.S. television commentator and conservative economic analyst Larry Kudlow
    will replace Gary Cohn as President Donald Trump's top economic adviser, the
    White House and Kudlow said on Wednesday, adding another loyalist to Trump's
    inner circle.
        • 'ENOUGH': U.S. student walkout sends message on gun violence
        U.S. students spilled out of classrooms by the tens of thousands on
    Wednesday, chanting slogans like "No more silence" and "We want change" as part
    of a coast-to-coast protest over gun violence prompted by last month's massacre
    at a Florida high school.
        • Britain expels 23 Russian diplomats over nerve attack on ex-spy
        Britain is to kick out 23 Russian diplomats, the biggest such expulsion
    since the Cold War, over a chemical attack on a former Russian double agent in
    England that Prime Minister Theresa May blamed on Moscow, an assessment backed
    by the United States.
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • The SGX Nifty Futures were trading at 10,384.50, down 0.4 percent from its
    previous close.
        • The Indian rupee is likely to fall against the dollar, tracking losses in
    most regional currencies amid worries that trade tensions between the U.S. and
    China could rise.
        • Indian government bonds are likely to open higher, tracking a fall in U.S.
    Treasury yields, as investors await a scheduled debt buyback later today. The
    yield on the benchmark 7.17 percent bond maturing in 2028 is likely to trade in
    7.65 percent -7.70 percent band today.
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • U.S. stocks fell on Wednesday after U.S. President Donald Trump sought to
    impose fresh tariffs on China, intensifying fears of a trade war that could
    raise costs and hurt overseas sales for U.S. companies.
        • Stock markets slipped broadly while government bonds attracted safe-haven
    demand amid mounting investor concerns that growing trade tensions would hurt
    the global economy.
        • The dollar fell against the yen and pulled further away from a recent
    two-week high, as lingering worries about global trade tensions weighed on
    investors' risk appetite.
        • The U.S. Treasury yield curve flattened on Wednesday as the market turned
    cautious over rising diplomatic tension between Britain and Russia, weak U.S.
    economic data and concerns over U.S. political and trade issues.
        • Oil prices held steady, supported by healthy global demand but capped by
    the relentless rise in U.S. production that is undermining efforts led by
    producer cartel OPEC to cut supplies and prop up markets.
        • Gold prices edged higher and hovered near one-week highs hit in the
    previous session, as concerns over trade tensions weighed on share
    markets.
        
        
            
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES     DEBT
     PNDF spot         64.91/64.94  March 14         -$39.95 mln  $95.19 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.678 pct    Month-to-date    $1.28 bln    -$1.03 bln
                                    Year-to-date     $1.39 bln    $57.76 mln
            
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
     
    
    ($1 = 64.8300 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Swathi Nair in Bengaluru)
      
