July 3, 2018 / 3:46 AM / 16 days ago
# Morning News Call - India, July 3
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        10:30 am: Water Resources Minister Nitin Gadkari at 50th foundation day
    celebration of WAPCOS in New Delhi.
        
        GMF: FED WATCH
        Reuters reporters and editors tracking the Federal Reserve take questions on
    the economics,politics, trade matters and rates policies facing America's
    central bank and others whose decisions drive markets day in and day out at 7:00
    pm IST. To join the conversation, click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • Vedanta chairman offers $1 billion to take Indian miner private
        Chairman Anil Agarwal's family trust plans to offer around $1 billion in
    cash to take London-listed Vedanta Resources Plc private, the Indian company
    said, as it grapples with the aftermath of deadly protests at home.
        • Few Indian shopkeepers turn up for protests against Walmart's Flipkart
    deal
        Indian shopkeepers and traders affiliated to a local lobby group held
    scattered sit-in protests across the country on Monday against Walmart Inc's
    proposed $16 billion acquisition of e-commerce firm Flipkart.
        • India bankers panel suggests steps to tackle bad loans
        An Indian government panel has suggested creating an asset management
    company (AMC) to resolve bad loans above $73 million, among steps to clean up
    the banking sector, the interim finance minister said on Monday. [nL4N1TY4ZQ
        • Solid demand lifts India June factory growth to fastest pace this year
        India's factory activity grew at its fastest pace this year in June on
    robust output driven by solid demand, according to a business survey that also
    showed input costs increased the most in nearly four years.
        • Thyssenkrupp hails 'fair' Tata Steel JV as focus turns to strategy
        Germany's Thyssenkrupp called a landmark joint venture thrashed out with
    India's Tata Steel "fair" on Monday, although the updated terms disappointed
    some shareholders.
        • Interpol seeks arrest of Indian billionaire jeweller Nirav Modi
        Interpol has issued a red notice request to find and arrest fugitive Indian
    billionaire jeweller Nirav Modi, who is at the heart of a $2 billion-plus bank
    fraud case, the international agency said on its website.
        • Carnival in talks to buy cinemas in UAE, Bahrain 
        Carnival Cinemas and a partner in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) are in
    talks to buy Qatar-based Novo Cinemas' theatres in the UAE and Bahrain, three
    sources familiar with the matter told Reuters.
        • India's RITES, Fine Organic Industries rise on market debut 
        Shares of RITES Ltd and Fine Organic Industries Ltd rose in their market
    debut on Monday, after initial share sales aiming to raise a combined $157.20
    million saw strong interest from investors last week.
        • Volkswagen's Skoda to invest $1.2 bln to revive India sales 
        European automaker Skoda plans to produce a new mid-sized sport utility
    vehicle in India, it said on Monday, as part of a $1.16 billion investment by
    its parent Volkswagen to revive sales in one of the world's fastest growing
    automobile markets.
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • Trump moves to block China Mobile's U.S. entry on national security
    grounds
        The U.S. government moved on Monday to block China Mobile Ltd from offering
    services to the U.S. telecommunications market, recommending its application be
    rejected because the government-owned firm posed national security risks.
    
        • Trump makes veiled WTO threat after EU warning on car tariffs
        U.S. President Donald Trump warned the World Trade Organization on Monday
    that "we'll be doing something" if the United States is not treated properly,
    just hours after the European Union said that U.S. automotive tariffs would hurt
    its own vehicle industry and prompt retaliation.
        • Dell moves to go public, spurns IPO
    Dell Technologies Inc said on Monday it would pay $21.7 billion in cash and
    stock to buy back shares tied to its interest in software company VMware Inc,
    returning the computer maker to the stock market without an initial public
    offering. 
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • The SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were trading at 10,661.00, up 0.2
    percent from previous close.
        • The Indian rupee is expected to open little changed against the U.S.
    currency as the biggest drop in Brent crude prices in two weeks offsets the
    impact from a continued slide on the Chinese yuan.
        • The Indian government bonds will likely fall in early session ahead of a
    fresh supply of state debt today.The yield on the benchmark 7.17 percent bond
    maturing in 2028 is likely to trade in a 7.89 percent-7.94 percent band today.
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • Wall Street ended higher on Monday after a choppy session, with gains in
    Apple and other technology stocks offsetting worries about an escalating trade
    war between Washington and its trading partners.
        • Asian shares dropped as sentiment remained fragile in the face of tense
    trade relations between the United States and major economies, with investors
    braced for another potentially rocky day for Chinese markets.
        • The dollar eased marginally against its peers, as the euro steadied after
    partners in Germany's coalition settled a row over migration that had threatened
    to topple Chancellor Angela Merkel's government.
        • The U.S. yield curve held near its flattest level in over a decade on
    Monday as investors preferred longer-dated U.S. government debt over short-dated
    issues on worries that a global trade war would slow inflation and business
    activity worldwide.
        • Oil prices climbed after Libya declared force majeure on some of its
    supplies, although an overall rise in OPEC output and an emerging slowdown in
    demand held back markets.
        • Gold prices crept higher, after falling about 1 percent to a
    six-and-a-half-month low in the previous session, as a softer dollar and
    mounting global trade tensions supported the safe-haven metal.
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES      DEBT
     PNDF spot         68.73/68.76  July 2           -$175.37 mln  $133.20 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.91 pct     Month-to-date    -$542.78 mln  -
                                    Year-to-date     -$787.43 mln  -$5.65 bln
        
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
     
        
        ($1 = 68.7100 Indian rupees)
        
        
    
     (Compiled by Priyanka Das in Bengaluru)
      
