April 10, 2018 / 3:25 AM / 3 months ago
# Morning News Call - India, April 10
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
         here
        
         If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at:
    here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        11:00 am: Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and AYUSH Minister Shripad Yesso
    Naik at inauguration of ‘Scientific Convention on World Homeopathy Day' in New
    Delhi.
        11:30 am: SIAM to announce auto industry sales data in New Delhi.
        
        LIVECHAT - THE GOLD AND SILVER CLUB  
    Nik Kalsi and Phil Carr from The Gold and Silver Club join us to discuss all
    things commodities at 2:30 pm IST. To join the conversation, click on the link:
    here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • In surprise move, India's Axis Bank CEO to step down by end of 2018
        Axis Bank Ltd said on Monday that its long-time Chief Executive Shikha
    Sharma will step down at the end of 2018, days after India's central bank was
    reported to have expressed concerns about the lender giving her a three-year
    extension.
        • India's Lemon Tree Hotels soars on market debut
        Shares in India's Lemon Tree Hotels Ltd closed higher on their trading debut
    on Monday after the company's initial public offering raised nearly $160
    million.
        • India's March gold imports halve as price rally dents demand -GFMS
        India's gold imports in March halved from a year ago to 52.5 tonnes as a
    rally in local prices to 16-month high slashed demand in the world's
    second-biggest consumer of bullion, provisional data from precious metals
    consultancy GFMS and bank dealers showed.
        • India likely to pay cane growers to help sugar mills - sources
        India is likely to provide financial support to cane farmers for produce
    sold to sugar mills, two government sources said, in a rare move to subsidise
    the industry which is reeling under a glut and struggling to export because of
    low global prices.
        • Labour leaders at Thyssenkrupp demand more clarity in Tata JV talks
        Labour leaders at Thyssenkrupp are seeking more clarity from management over
    a planned European joint venture with India's Tata Steel, warning of possible
    fallout at the German group's sites.
        • Swiss Aviation Consulting denies bid for Air India assets
        Aviation advisory firm Swiss Aviation Consulting on Monday denied it has
    expressed interest in buying the debt burdened state-run carrier Air India.
    
        • Xiaomi pushes for smartphone component suppliers to invest in India
        China's Xiaomi said it wants its global smartphone component makers to set
    up base in India, in what is likely to bring as much as $2.5 billion of
    investment to the South Asian nation while also creating up to 50,000
    jobs.   
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • China's Xi promises to lower tariffs this year, open economy further 
    Chinese President Xi Jinping promised to open the country's economy further and
    lower import tariffs on products including cars, in a speech that comes amid
    rising trade tensions between China and the United States.    
        • FBI raids offices, home of Trump's personal lawyer -sources
        The Federal Bureau of Investigation on Monday raided the offices and home of
    U.S. President Donald Trump's personal lawyer Michael Cohen, law enforcement
    sources said, in a dramatic new development in a series of probes involving
    close Trump associates.
        Facebook's Zuckerberg faces Senate hearing but little hope for action
    Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg's No. 1 mission during his appearance
    before U.S. lawmakers on Tuesday and Wednesday will be to defend against calls
    to regulate internet-based companies.    
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • SGX Nifty nearest-month futures at 10,441, up 0.5 percent from its
    previous close. 
        • The Indian rupee is expected to open higher against the dollar, after
    Chinese President Xi Jinping's speech soothed investor anxieties over a trade
    war between the world's largest two economies. 
        • Indian government bonds will likely fall in early session ahead of a
    supply of state government papers, while sentiment remained subdued after a
    smaller-than-expected increase in foreign investment limit in sovereign debt.
    The yield on the benchmark 7.17 percent bond maturing in 2028 is likely to trade
    in a 7.20 percent-7.28 percent band today, a trader with a state-run bank said.
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • Wall Street's major indexes rose on Monday as a softer stance by U.S.
    policymakers on China tariffs powered a rebound from last week's selloff, but
    stocks pared much of their gains late in the session after a report that the
    Federal Bureau of Investigation raided the office of President Donald Trump's
    lawyer.
        • U.S stock futures rallied, Asian shares bounced and the safe haven yen
    fell as Chinese President Xi Jinping promised to lower import tariffs on
    products including cars this year, helping soothe investor jitters over an
    escalating U.S.-China trade row.
        • The dollar sagged against its peers as rhetoric from Chinese and U.S.
    policymakers kept alive concerns about a trade conflict between the world's two
    largest economies and undermined support for the greenback.
        • U.S. Treasury yields on most maturities edged higher on Monday, for the
    fourth time in the last five sessions, as a recovery of risk appetite
    accompanied a rally on Wall Street after the United States sought to ease
    concerns about a trade conflict with China.
        • Oil markets added to strong gains from the previous session on hopes that
    a trade dispute between the United States and China could be resolved without
    greater damage to the global economy.
        • Gold prices ticked up in early Asian trade as the dollar and Asian stocks
    slipped, while concerns about the prospect of an escalation in the China-U.S.
    trade spat and reports of a poison gas attack in Syria offered support as
    well.
       
       
     CLOSE             FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES       DEBT           
     PNDF spot         64.97/65.00      April 9        - $200.15 mln  - $57.83 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.37 pct         Month-to-date  $0.52 mln      $258.53 mln
                                        Year-to-date   $2.17 bln      $979.16 mln
        
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
    
    
    
    ($1 = 64.9500 Indian rupees)
    
