April 4, 2018 / 3:28 AM / 4 months ago
# Morning News Call - India, April 4
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        9:00 am: Skymet Weather to release its monsoon forecast for 2018 in Mumbai.
        10:00 am: Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India Chairman M.S. Sahoo,
    Corporate Affairs Secretary Injeti Srinivas, Corporate Affairs Joint Secretary
    Gyaneshwar Kumar Singh, DIPP Additional Secretary Shailendra Singh at CII's
    ‘National Conference on Resolving Insolvency in India' in New Delhi.
        11:00 am: Budget session of Parliament continues in New Delhi.
        3:00 pm: Housing Minister Hardeep Singh Puri at an event in New Delhi.
        
        TRADING INDIA FORUM - INDIA POLITICS
        The BJP's loss in the Gorakhpur bypolls has caught the eye of many political
    pundits. With unhappy regional allies like the TDP and Shiv Sena and the
    re-emergence of the Third Front, 2019 is shaping up to be a massive political
    battle. Who will win and who has the upper hand? Author, independent political
    analyst and market expert Pankaj Sharma shares his views with us at 11:00 am
    IST. To join the conversation, click on the link: here
    
        GMF: LIVECHAT - FX MONTH AHEAD
        John Noonan, Head of IFR FX Watch Asia, analyses cues and views for market
    moves for the month ahead at 09:30 am IST. To join the Global Markets Forum,
    click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • Lacklustre demand drags Indian March factory growth to 5-month low-PMI 
    Activity in India's manufacturing sector expanded at its weakest pace in five
    months in March as order and production growth slowed, discouraging firms from
    hiring, a business survey showed on Tuesday.
        • India central bank drops Axis Bank from list of bullion importers
    The Reserve Bank of India has dropped Axis Bank from a list of banks it has
    cleared to import gold and silver in the current financial year that began on
    April 1, in the latest setback for the country's third-biggest private sector
    lender.
        • India drops plan to punish journalists for "fake news" following outcry
    Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday ordered the withdrawal of rules
    punishing journalists held responsible for distributing "fake news", giving no
    reason for the change, less than 24 hours after the original announcement.
    
        • Centrum Group to sell money exchange business to US-based Ebix
    India's Centrum Capital Ltd said on Tuesday its parent Centrum Group had agreed
    to sell its money exchange business, Centrum Direct, to U.S.-based Ebix Inc for
    about 12 billion rupees.
        • Indian court orders tax dept to lift freeze on Cognizant's funds
    IT services company Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp said on Tuesday an
    Indian court had granted the company's application to lift the Indian income tax
    department's freeze on its bank accounts.
        • INTERVIEW-Sberbank to increase gold sales to India and China in 2018
    Sberbank CIB, an arm of Russia's largest lender, plans to more than double its
    gold sales to India this year and sell more gold than forecast to China, while
    keeping gold purchases in Russia flat, its head of global markets said.
    
    
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • U.S. escalates China trade showdown with tariffs on $50 billion in imports
        The Trump administration on Tuesday raised the stakes in a growing trade
    showdown with China, targeting 25 percent tariffs on some 1,300 industrial
    technology, transport and medical products to try to force changes in Beijing's
    intellectual property practices.
        • Japan March services PMI shows slowest growth in 17 months as new orders
    ebb
        Activity in Japan's service sector expanded at the slowest pace in 17 months
    in March as new business growth cooled, suggesting a slight moderation in
    overall economic growth.
        • Samsung's Q1 profit seen at $13.7 billion as DRAM chip margins soar
        Samsung Electronics Co Ltd is set to forecast a near 50 percent jump in
    quarterly profit on Friday as an unprecedented rally in the global memory chip
    market should outweigh a slowdown in smartphones and related components sales.
    
    
            
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        The SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were trading at 10,281.00, up 0.1
    percent from its previous close.
        The Indian rupee is likely to edge higher against the dollar after the U.S.
    unveiled a list of Chinese products on which it plans to impose tariffs.
        Indian government bonds are likely to trade little changed because investors
    may stay on the sidelines as the Monetary Policy Committee's first meeting for
    current financial year starts today. The yield on the benchmark 7.17 percent
    bond maturing in 2028 is likely to trade in a 7.32 percent-7.36 percent band
    today.
    
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • The three major U.S. stock indexes ended higher after a choppy session on
    Tuesday as investors looked forward to earnings season while the S&P; 500 pushed
    above a key support level and Amazon.com shares jumped on bets that criticism
    from President Donald Trump would not translate to policy changes.
        • Asian share markets faltered as simmering fears of a Sino-U.S. trade war
    overshadowed a bounce on Wall Street and left investors reluctant to take
    positions in anything.
        • The dollar eased against the yen, with the outlook clouded by worries that
    escalating U.S.-China trade tensions could exert a toll on the global economy
    and U.S. growth.
        • U.S. Treasury yields rose on Tuesday as stock markets firmed and as
    investors looked ahead to Friday's closely watched employment report for March.
    
        • Oil prices slipped on expectations for a build-up in U.S. crude
    inventories, but Russian government comments on prospects for stepping up
    cooperation with OPEC to coordinate output cuts braked steeper declines.
        • Gold prices were steady in early Asian trade as the dollar eased amid
    escalating trade tensions between the United States and China.
        
        
                       CLOSE         FII             EQUITIES      DEBT
                                     INVESTMENTS                   
     PNDF spot         64.98/65.01   April 3         -$57.86 mln   -$158.44 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.49 pct      Month-to-date   -             -$145.09 mln
                                     Year-to-date    $2.13 bln     $575.54 mln
     
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
    
    ($1 = 64.99 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Pathikrit Bandyopadhyay in Bengaluru)
      
