April 6, 2018 / 3:23 AM / 3 months ago
# Morning News Call - India, April 6
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        10:00 am: Samvardhana Motherson Group Chairman V.C. Sehgal, Tribhovandas
    Bhimji Zaveri Director Raashi Zaveri and other jewelry industry officials at
    Gems and Jewellery Conclave in Mumbai.
        10:30 am: FSSAI Chairperson Ashish Bahuguna, Drugs Controller General of
    India S. Eswara Reddy, Railway Board Chairman Ashwani Lohani and other officials
    at ‘Global Logistics Summit' in New Delhi.
        11:00 am: Budget session of Parliament continues in New Delhi.
        11:00 am: Apollo Hospitals Vice Chairperson Shobana Kamineni, Nepal Prime
    Minister K.P. Sharma Oli, Edelweiss Financial Services Chairman Rashesh Shah at
    India-Nepal Business Forum in New Delhi.
        12:00 pm: MSME Minister Giriraj Singh to brief media on khadi and village
    industries in New Delhi.
        1:00 pm: Nestle India CMD Suresh Narayanan at Gems and Jewellery Conclave in
    Mumbai.
        
        GMF: LIVECHAT - WEEKAHEAD
        Reuters EMEA markets editor Mike Dolan discusses the upcoming week's main
    market inflection points at 3:30 pm IST. To join the conversation, click on the
    link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • India cbank holds rates; cheers markets by trimming inflation view 
        The Reserve Bank of India kept its policy rates on hold on Thursday and
    retained its "neutral" stance but lowered its inflation call, reducing the odds
    of a near-term rate rise and spurring a rally in stocks and bonds.
        • Indian services firms return to growth as demand picks up -PMI 
        India's services industry returned to growth in March as new business picked
    up on improved demand, a private survey showed on Thursday, encouraging firms to
    hire at the fastest pace in nearly seven years.
        • IndiGo says to opt out of race to acquire Air India
        Top Indian carrier Interglobe Aviation Ltd, which operates under the IndiGo
    brand, said on Thursday it was opting out of a race to acquire state-run Air
    India as the terms set by the government would not suit it.
        • RCom says confident of speedy asset sale after top court relief 
        Debt-laden Reliance Communications (RCom) said on Thursday Supreme Court had
    lifted a high court stay on sale of some of its assets and allowed its secured
    lenders to proceed with the sale process.
        • India defers new accounting rules for banks cheering investors 
        The Reserve Bank of India on Thursday deferred until next year a new
    accounting standard for the country's banks that would have led to higher
    bad-loan provisioning requirements.
        • Central bank officials called on by police to aid in PNB fraud probe
        Four senior Indian central bank officials have been called on by
    investigators to help explain banking processes as police probe deeper into the
    $2 billion fraud at Punjab National Bank, sources familiar with the matter said
    on Thursday.
        • MakeMyTrip partners Flipkart for travel bookings
        Indian online travel portal MakeMyTrip has formed a partnership with
    Flipkart to allow customers to book domestic flight tickets and other travel
    services directly through the e-commerce firm's portal.
        • India's finance minister being treated for kidney ailment, infections 
        Indian Finance Minister Arun Jaitley on Thursday said he was undergoing
    treatment for kidney related problems and infections, after he cancelled a visit
    to London next week for annual economic talks.
       
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • Trade fight mounts as Trump threatens $100 billion more in China tariffs
        President Donald Trump said on Thursday he had instructed U.S. trade
    officials to consider $100 billion in additional tariffs against China, upping
    the ante in an already high-stakes trade confrontation between the world's two
    biggest economies.
        • Samsung Elec tips record Q1 profit as chip boom winds down
    Samsung Electronics tipped a surprise record first-quarter profit but market
    reaction was muted due to growing concerns that the semiconductor boom that has
    driven the South Korean tech giant's earnings is about to end.
        • Japan household spending posts biggest drop in nearly a year as wages fall
        Japan's household spending suffered the biggest annual decline in nearly a
    year in February as inflation-adjusted wages continued to fall, data showed on
    Friday, suggesting the economy's longest run of growth since the 1980s asset
    bubble has peaked.
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        The SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were trading at 10,337.00, down 0.2
    percent from its previous close.
        The Indian rupee is likely to open higher against the dollar as expectations
    of debt-related flows eclipse renewed concerns on U.S. trade policies.
        Indian government bonds are likely to gain in early session as investor
    sentiment was boosted following the Monetary Policy Committee's lowering of its
    inflation projection for this fiscal year, a move that soothed concerns of
    monetary tightening in the near term. The yield on the benchmark 7.17 percent
    bond maturing in 2028 is likely to trade in a 7.08 percent-7.16 percent band.
    
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • U.S. stock futures fell more than 1 percent late on Thursday after U.S.
    President Donald Trump said he had instructed U.S. trade officials to consider
    $100 billion in additional tariffs on China.
        • Japanese stocks were choppy as the perceived safe-haven yen rose after
    U.S. President Donald Trump warned of further tariffs on China as the simmering
    trade dispute between the two nations kept investors on edge.
        • The dollar fell against the yen on Friday after U.S. President Donald
    Trump said he had instructed U.S. trade officials to consider $100 billion in
    additional tariffs on China.
        • U.S. Treasury yields rose to one-week highs on Thursday as investors piled
    back into equities as reduced fears of a trade war drove up the appetite for
    risk, and ahead of Friday's closely watched employment report for March.
        • Oil prices fell on Friday along with equities as U.S. President Trump's
    threat of new tariffs on China reignited fears of a trade war between the
    world's two biggest economies.
        • Gold prices rose as investors sought safer assets after U.S. President
    Donald Trump proposed $100 billion in new tariffs on China, raising concerns
    about an escalating trade spat between the United States and China.
        
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES     DEBT
     PNDF spot         64.96/64.99  April 5          -$16.65 mln  $89.43 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.30 pct     Month-to-date    -$67.88 mln  $166.29 mln
                                    Year-to-date     $2.10 bln    $886.92 mln
     
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
        
    ($1 = 64.88 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Pathikrit Bandyopadhyay in Bengaluru)
      
