July 16, 2018 / 3:41 AM / 3 days ago
# Morning News Call - India, July 16
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        10:00 am: Interim Finance Minister Piyush Goyal at an event in New Delhi.
        12:00 pm: Government to release June wholesale price inflation data in New
    Delhi.
        
        
        LIVECHAT-MARKETS FOCUS
        Michael Howell, managing director at CrossBorder Capital, joins us to
    discuss the recent sell-off in EM currencies, which has set the cat among the
    pigeons, and how to navigate such troubled waters. With looming trade wars and a
    scenario of rising interest rates, world markets seem to be set for a difficult
    second half of 2018. To join the conversation at 0230 pm IST, click on the link:
    here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • India's trade deficit widens to more than 5-year high in June
    India's trade deficit widened to its highest in more than five years in June,
    the trade ministry said on Friday, driven largely by a surge in oil prices and a
    weaker rupee.
        • Infosys retains revenue forecast as seeks recovery
    India's second-biggest IT firm Infosys Ltd retained its revenue outlook for the
    fiscal year to March, with its chief executive upbeat about demand for the
    company's services in the key markets of United States and Europe.
        • India says twice-delayed strategic talks with U.S. to be held in September
    India will hold a top-level strategic dialogue with the United States in the
    first week of September, India's defence minister said on Friday, after the
    United States last month postponed the meeting for a second time this year.
    
        • Indivior wins preliminary injunction against generic rival
    A U.S. court has granted Indivior a preliminary injunction blocking India's Dr.
    Reddy's Laboratories from selling cut-price versions of the British drugmaker's
    best-selling opioid addiction treatment in the United States, Indivior said on
    Friday.
        • India's capital market regulator proposes tighter rules for auditors,
    valuers
    India's capital market regulator has proposed amendments to tighten laws
    governing auditors and other third-party individuals hired by listed companies
    for auditing financial results, among other things.
        • India's social media monitoring plan worries Supreme Court
    A government plan to monitor social media could turn India into a "surveillance
    state", the Supreme Court was cited as saying on Friday as it asked the
    government to respond to such worries within two weeks, a lawyer involved in the
    case said.
        
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • China Q2 GDP growth cools as factory output weakens, trade row flares
    China's economic growth slowed as expected in the second quarter as the
    government's efforts to tackle debt risks crimp activity and an intensifying
    trade war with the United States threatens to knock exports.
        • Trump and Putin to hold first summit talks as twitchy West looks on
    After months of exchanging long-distance compliments, Donald Trump and Vladimir
    Putin sit down for their first ever summit, a potential political minefield at
    home for the U.S. president but a geopolitical win for his Russian counterpart.
    
        • China looks to get cozy with EU in annual talks as Trump tariffs bite
    The European Union will open an annual meeting with China, and will be looking
    to fend off overtures for an anti-U.S. alliance as China seeks a European
    counterbalance to U.S. tariffs.
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were little changed at 11,026.50.
        • The Indian rupee is expected to edge lower against the dollar after the
    country's trade deficit widened to its highest in more than five years.
        • Indian government bonds are likely to open little changed, as steady crude
    oil prices and mixed inflation data provided little cues. The yield on the
    benchmark 7.17 percent bond maturing in 2028 is likely to trade in a 7.76
    percent-7.82 percent band today.
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • U.S. stocks rose slightly on Friday, putting the S&P; 500 at its highest
    closing level in more than five months, as gains in industrials and other areas
    offset a drop in financials after results from three of the big banks mostly
    disappointed.
        • Asian shares were lower after data from China showed the world's
    second-largest economy slowed slightly in the second quarter, and as investors
    remain cautious over the impact of the heated Sino-U.S. trade war.
        • Major currencies held around recent ranges thanks to a lull in China-U.S.
    trade skirmishing and as investors await key data from the world's two biggest
    economies to determine whether global growth is running out of puff.
        • Treasury prices moved higher on Friday after the Federal Reserve
    reinforced views of strong U.S. economic growth in a report to Congress.
        • Oil prices fell as concerns about supply disruptions eased and Libyan
    ports resumed export activities, while traders eyed potential supply increases
    by Russia and other oil producers.
        • Gold prices nudged higher in early trade amid a softer U.S. dollar and
    slightly weaker Asian shares, after sliding to their lowest in seven months in
    the previous session.
        
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES      DEBT
     PNDF spot         68.44/68.47  July 13 2018     -$161.34 mln  -$114.22 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.79 pct     Month-to-date    -$172.40 mln  -$273 mln
                                    Year-to-date     -$959.83 mln  -$6.05 bln
     
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
     
    
    
    ($1 = 68.4900 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Yoganand KN in Bengaluru)
      
