July 11, 2018 / 3:20 AM / 8 days ago
# Morning News Call - India, July 11
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        10:00 am: Aviation Minister Suresh Prabhu at FICCI-Civil Aviation Ministry
    event in New Delhi.
        10:30 am: SEBI Chairman Ajay Tyagi and BSE MD & CEO Ashishkumar Chauhan at
    ASSOCHAM's conference on corporate bond market in Mumbai.
        11:00 am: Parliament Estimates Committee to meet bankers from ICICI Bank,
    Bank of Baroda, Bank of Maharashtra and Chief Economic Adviser Arvind
    Subramanian in New Delhi.
        6:00 pm: Chief Economic Adviser Arvind Subramanian at India Policy Forum
    2018 in New Delhi.
        
        LIVECHAT - EQUITIES WATCH
        Join our Reuters correspondents in London and New York for a discussion on
    the stock markets and company earnings at 6:30 pm IST. To join the conversation,
    click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • TCS posts record profit, expects strong growth in financial services to
    continue
        India's biggest software services firm, Tata Consultancy Services, expects
    growth in its banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI) unit to remain
    strong in the next one to two years as it posted a record net profit, helped by
    a rebound in the key division.
        • WhatsApp launches Indian media blitz to dispel fake news woes
        Facebook's WhatsApp messaging platform on Tuesday published advertisements
    in key Indian newspapers to tackle the spread of misinformation, its first such
    effort to combat a flurry of fake messages that prompted mob lynchings.
    
        • JSW Steel revamps acquisition strategy after recent setbacks: Executive
        JSW Steel is looking to acquire smaller steel plants in India and overseas
    that produce specialised products, a top executive said on Tuesday, as it tweaks
    its acquisition strategy after missing out on some recent deals.
        • IndusInd Bank June-quarter net profit surges 24 percent
        IndusInd Bank reported a 24 percent jump in its first-quarter net profit on
    Tuesday, driven by higher interest income.
        • India, South Korea aim to more than double trade to $50 billion
        India and South Korea signed 11 agreements on Tuesday to expand business
    ties and more than double mutual trade to $50 billion by 2030, a day after the
    premiers of the two countries launched a Samsung mobile phone factory near
    Delhi.
        
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • U.S. ramps up trade row with China, threatens new tariffs
        The Trump administration raised the stakes in its trade dispute with China
    on Tuesday, saying it would slap 10 percent tariffs on an extra $200 billion
    worth of Chinese imports.
        • Japan machinery orders seen as bullish after May's smaller than expected
    fall
        Japan's core machinery orders fell in May, pulling back from the previous
    month's big gain, although the decline was softer than expected, easing some
    concerns about a slowdown in capital expenditure amid a worsening U.S.-China
    trade conflict.
        • Tesla goes big in China with Shanghai plant
        Tesla Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk on Tuesday landed a deal with
    Chinese authorities to build a new auto plant in Shanghai, its first factory
    outside the United States, that would double the size of the electric car
    maker's global manufacturing.
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were trading down 0.2 percent at
    10,932.50.
        • The Indian rupee is expected to open lower against the dollar amid renewed
    pressure on the yuan and other regional currencies after the U.S. proposed
    imposing tariffs on a further $200 billion of Chinese goods.
        • The Indian government bonds are likely to open slightly higher, as U.S.
    Treasury yields as well as crude oil prices eased overnight, even as market
    awaits local retail inflation data due tomorrow. The yield on the benchmark 7.17
    percent bond maturing in 2028 is likely to trade in a 7.87 percent - 7.92
    percent band today.
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • U.S. stock futures extended their losses after Washington announced a plan
    to slap tariffs on an extra $200 billion of imports from China, sharply
    escalating a trade war between the world's two biggest economies.
        • U.S. threats of tariffs on an additional $200 billion worth of Chinese
    goods sent Asian stocks lower, with China's markets leading the declines, as
    trade tensions between the world's two biggest economies worsened.
        • The dollar rose near an 11-month high against the Chinese yuan and the
    Australian dollar tumbled after the U.S. said it would slap tariffs on an extra
    $200 billion of imports from China, sharply escalating tensions between the
    world's two biggest economies.
        • The yields on U.S. longer-dated Treasuries trimmed their earlier rise late
    on Tuesday following a Bloomberg report, citing sources, that U.S. President
    Donald Trump is ready to release of an additional $200 billion in Chinese goods
    to be hit with tariffs.
        • Oil prices fell, with Brent dropping by more than $1, after the United
    States said it would consider requests for waivers from sanctions due to snap
    back into place on Iranian crude exports.
        • Gold prices inched lower early as the U.S. dollar firmed amid an
    escalating trade spat between the United States and China.
        
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES      DEBT
     PNDF spot         68.79/68.82  July 10          -$3.02 mln    -$39.52 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.9 pct      Month-to-date    -$206.39 mln  -$135.84 mln
                                    Year-to-date     -$993.82 mln  -$5.92 bln
     
           
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
     
    
    ($1 = 68.7500 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Swathi Nair in Bengaluru)
      
