August 18, 2017 / 3:21 AM / a year ago
# Morning News Call - India, August 18
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        9:30 am: NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant at National Summit on 100 Smart Cities
    India 2017 in New Delhi.
        10:00 am: Junior Minister PMO Jitendra Singh, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant at
    ASSOCHAM World Entrepreneurs' Day 2017 in New Delhi.
        5:00 pm: RBI to release weekly foreign exchange data in Mumbai.
        
        
         LIVECHAT - QUIZ EAST
        The first of our Friday quizzes focuses on Asia and the week's top news.
    Tests your wits and googling speed at 11:00 am IST. To join the conversation,
    click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • Taking aim at China, India tightens power grid, telecoms rules 
        India is tightening the rules for businesses entering its power transmission
    sector and making stringent checks on both power and telecoms equipment for
    malware - moves that government and industry officials say aim to check China's
    advance into sensitive sectors.
        • India clears purchase of six Boeing helicopters in $650 million deal 
        India cleared the purchase of six more Boeing Co Apache helicopters in a
    deal worth close to 42 billion rupees, a defence ministry official said.
    
        • HDFC Bank cuts rates on certain savings accounts 
        HDFC Bank Ltd cut interest rates on most of its savings accounts to 3.5
    percent from 4 percent.
           
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • Spain hunts driver who killed 13 in Barcelona, says foils bomb plot 
        Spain mounted a sweeping anti-terror operation after a suspected Islamist
    militant drove a van into crowds in Barcelona, killing 13 people before fleeing,
    in what police suspect was one of multiple planned attacks.
        • Fellow Republicans assail Trump after he defends Confederate monuments
        President Donald Trump decried the removal of monuments to the pro-slavery
    Civil War Confederacy, echoing white nationalists and drawing stinging rebukes
    from fellow Republicans in a controversy that has inflamed racial tensions.
    
        • U.S., Japan step up defense cooperation to counter North Korea
        The United States and Japan will step up their defense cooperation to deal
    with the threat from nuclear-armed North Korea as tensions in East Asia remain
    high, officials from the two allies said.
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • The SGX Nifty Futures was trading at 9,861.00, trading down 0.5 percent
    from its previous close.
        • The Indian rupee will likely open lower against the dollar, as caution
    over U.S. President Donald Trump-led administration's ability to push forward
    reforms in the world's largest economy and a likely terrorist attack in
    Barcelona sapped investors' appetite for risk assets.
        • Indian sovereign bonds are likely to fall in early trade, after minutes of
    the rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee's August meeting showed several
    members were concerned about a further rise in inflation. The yield on the
    benchmark 6.79 percent bond maturing in 2027 is likely to trade in a 6.50
    percent-6.56 percent band.
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • U.S. stocks sold off on Thursday, with the S&P; 500 recording its biggest
    daily percentage drop in three months as escalating worries about the Trump
    administration's ability to push through its economic agenda rattled investors.
    
        • Asian stock investors joined a global retreat from riskier assets and the
    dollar wavered on growing doubts about U.S. President Donald Trump's ability to
    fulfill his economic agenda.
        • U.S. Treasury yields fell on Thursday as investors, unnerved by a deadly
    attack in Barcelona and speculation about a top White House economic adviser
    quitting, favored safe, low-yielding bonds over stocks and other risky assets.
    
        • Oil prices fell as part of a broad-based selloff across markets and
    despite signs that crude markets are gradually tightening.
        • Gold was mostly steady early amid weaker Asian stocks, with some investors
    gravitating towards safe-haven assets on political uncertainty in the United
    States and after a van mowed through crowds in Barcelona, killing at least 13
    people.
        
       
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES      DEBT
     PNDF spot         64.18/64.21  August 17        -$152.89 mln  -
     10-yr bond yield  -            Month-to-date    -             -
                                    Year-to-date     -             -
        
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
        
        
        ($1 = 64.1650 Indian rupees)
        
        
    
     (Compiled by Erum Khaled in Bengaluru)
      
