July 10, 2018 / 3:16 AM / 9 days ago
# Morning News Call - India, July 10
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        10:30 am: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers to release industry
    sales data for June in New Delhi.
        11:00 am: RBI Deputy Governor N.S. Vishwanathan to meet parliamentary
    committee in New Delhi.
        12:00 pm: State Bank of India and Punjab National Bank heads to meet
    parliamentary committee in New Delhi.
        2:30 pm: Economic Affairs Secretary and Revenue Secretary to meet
    parliamentary committee in New Delhi.
        4:30 pm: Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Insolvency & Bankruptcy Board
    of India Chairman M.S. Sahoo at the launch of ‘Insolvency Associate' course in
    New Delhi.
        7:00 pm: Finance Minister Piyush Goyal, Agriculture Minister Radha Mohan
    Singh and Food Processing Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal at FICCI event in New
    Delhi.
        
        LIVECHAT - FED WATCH
        Reuters reporters and editors tracking the Federal Reserve take questions on
    the economics , politics, trade matters and rates policies facing America's
    central bank and others whose decisions drive markets day in and day out at
    06:30 pm IST. To join the conversation, click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • Samsung opens world's largest phone factory in India
        Samsung Electronics has formally opened a new factory in India, which the
    South Korean tech group says is the world's biggest mobile phone manufacturing
    plant, part of its plans to expand production in the world's fastest growing
    major mobile phone market.
        • NCLT dismisses ousted Chairman Mistry's petition against Tata Sons
        The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) dismissed on Monday a petition by
    former Tata Sons Chairman Cyrus Mistry who had alleged oppression of minority
    shareholders and mismanagement, giving the $100 billion conglomerate an initial
    win in a drawn-out feud.
        • Cairn says Indian tax office sold $216 million of Vedanta shares
        Cairn Energy said on Monday it would write down the value of its investment
    in Vedanta after Indian tax authorities sold $216 million worth of its shares in
    the Indian mining company in a dispute over retrospective tax dues.
        
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • Trump picks conservative judge Kavanaugh for U.S. Supreme Court
        U.S. President Donald Trump on Monday announced Brett Kavanaugh as his
    nominee for the U.S. Supreme Court, picking a conservative federal appeals court
    judge who survived a previous tough Senate confirmation battle and helped
    investigate Democratic former President Bill Clinton in the 1990s.
        • China June producer inflation hits 6-month high, consumer inflation up
    slightly
        China's producer inflation accelerated to a six-month high in June, lifted
    by strong commodity prices and threatening to put more pressure on the country's
    exporters as a trade war escalates between Washington and Beijing.
        • Yahoo Japan buys back $2 billion of shares in 3-way deal with SoftBank,
    Altaba
        Yahoo Japan is buying back around $2 billion worth of its shares from
    SoftBank as part of a three-way deal with its top shareholders, U.S. investment
    firm Altaba and SoftBank.
        
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were trading up 0.3 percent at 10,904.00.
        • The Indian rupee is expected to open little changed against the dollar as
    rising crude oil prices offset a rebound in regional equities and currencies.
        • The Indian government bonds are likely to open lower, ahead of state debt
    supply and as an uptick in crude oil prices may hurt demand. The yield on the
    benchmark 7.17 percent bond maturing in 2028 is likely to trade in a 7.87
    percent - 7.92 percent band today. 
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • U.S. stocks rose on Monday, giving the Dow and S&P; 500 their biggest gains
    in more than a month, as bank shares jumped ahead of earnings reports later this
    week.
        • Asian shares rallied for a third session as hopes for upbeat corporate
    earnings buoyed Wall Street, while several high-profile resignations from
    Britain's government kept sterling on the defensive.
        • The British pound was frail after the departure of two key eurosceptic
    ministers raised worries about a "hard Brexit" while the dollar stood near
    three-week lows against its rivals after data showed soft U.S. wage
    growth.
        • Treasuries yields rose on Monday as investors moved into equities and
    freed up cash for new Treasuries auctions this week, following a strong U.S.
    jobs report on Friday and a muted response to the start of U.S. tariffs on
    Chinese imports.
        • Oil prices rose on escalating concerns about potential supply shortages,
    with Brent crude leading the way as hundreds of oil workers in Norway are set to
    strike later in the day after failed wage talks.
        • Gold prices edged up in early Asian trade after hitting a two-week high in
    the previous session, amid political uncertainty over Brexit and as the U.S.
    dollar remained subdued.
        
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES      DEBT
     PNDF spot         68.71/68.74  July 9           -$83.03 mln   -$9.92 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.89 pct     Month-to-date    -$98.35 mln   -$96.32 mln
                                    Year-to-date     -$885.78 mln  -$5.88 bln
     
            
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
     
    
    ($1 = 68.6600 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Swathi Nair in Bengaluru)
      
