May 21, 2018 / 3:06 AM / 2 months ago
# Morning News Call - India, May 21
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        9:15 am: IndoStar Capital Finance lists on exchanges in Mumbai.
         
        LIVECHAT- INDONESIA FOCUS
        Richard Borsuk, news editor on Reuters Asia economics and markets desks,
    joins us to share his perspective on what has gone well (and hasn't) for
    Indonesia in the 20 years since Suharto fall after a threedecade long presidency
    at 10:30 am. To join the conversation, click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • Vedanta says Indian copper smelter shutdown causing deficit, price rise
        Vedanta Resources' shutdown of its South Indian copper smelter, one of
    India's biggest, is causing a copper deficit and increased prices in India, its
    subsidiary Vedanta Ltd said on Friday.
        • India and EU give WTO lists of US goods for potential tariff retaliation 
        India and the European Union have given the World Trade Organization lists
    of the U.S. products that could incur high tariffs in retaliation for U.S.
    President Donald Trump's global tariffs on steel and aluminium, WTO filings
    showed on Friday.
        • Tata Steel's Dutch employees throw spanner in Thyssenkrupp JV works 
        Tata Steel's Dutch works council has called into question a timeframe for
    completing a joint venture between the Indian group and Thyssenkrupp TKAG.DE by
    end-June, saying it may need more time to assess the deal, its president said.
    
        • Ashok Leyland Q4 profit jumps 40 percent, beats estimates 
        Ashok Leyland posted a 40 percent jump in fourth-quarter net profit on
    Friday, helped by stronger sales volume.
        • Debt-laden RCom in advanced talks with Ericsson to resolve issues 
        Reliance Communications said it was in advanced talks with Ericsson to
    resolve "commercial issues", after two sources indicated it was currently
    uncertain if the firms' discussions over dues would lead to an out-of-court
    settlement.
        • Bajaj Auto Q4 profit jumps 35 percent, beats estimates 
        Bajaj Auto posted a near 35 percent jump in fourth-quarter profit on Friday,
    beating estimates, aided by a rise in sales volume.
        • Tata Steel completes $5.2 billion purchase of bankrupt Bhushan Steel
        Tata Steel said on Friday it had completed the acquisition of a 72.7 percent
    stake in Bhushan Steel, which was in bankruptcy court over unpaid loans.
    
        
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • U.S., China putting trade war on hold, Treasury's Mnuchin says
        The U.S. trade war with China is "on hold" after the world's largest
    economies agreed to drop their tariff threats while they work on a wider trade
    agreement, U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Sunday.
        • Japan's exports accelerate in April as volumes rise, outlook positive 
        Japan's exports accelerated in April on increased shipments of cars and
    machines used to make semiconductors, with rising volumes suggesting healthy
    overseas demand could help the economy recover quickly from a dip in the first
    quarter.
        • Trump to ask Justice Dept to look into campaign surveillance claims
        U.S. President Donald Trump demanded on Twitter on Sunday that the Justice
    Department look into whether his 2016 presidential campaign was infiltrated or
    surveilled by the agency or the FBI under the Obama administration.
    
            
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were trading up 0.1 percent at 10,627.00.
        • Indian government bonds are likely to edge lower in early trade tracking
    gains in U.S. Treasury yields and crude oil prices that will weigh on demand for
    emerging market assets. The yield on the benchmark 7.17 percent bond maturing in
    2028 is likely to trade in 7.84 percent-7.89 percent band today.
        • The Indian rupee will likely open lower against the U.S. currency after
    progress in trade talks between Washington and Beijing over the weekend prompted
    a broad rally in the dollar.
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        •  U.S. stock future opened higher on Sunday after Treasury Secretary Steven
    Mnuchin said on Sunday that the United States and China agreed to drop their
    tariff threats to work on a wider trade agreement.
        • Stocks rose as U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin declared the U.S.
    trade war with China "on hold" following an agreement to drop their tariff
    threats that had roiled global markets this year.
        • The dollar edged up against the yen, after U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven
    Mnuchin said the U.S. trade war with China is "on hold", boosting risk sentiment
    amid hopes for an easing of trade tensions between the world's two biggest
    economies.
        • U.S. 10-Year treasury note futures prices were down slightly on Sunday
    evening, after U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said earlier that the U.S.
    trade war with China was "on hold".
        • Oil prices rose as markets reacted to news that China and the United
    States have put a looming trade war between the world's two biggest economies
    "on hold".
        • Gold prices edged down as the dollar rose and demand for safe-haven assets
    eased after U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the U.S. trade war with
    China was "on hold".
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES      DEBT
     PNDF spot         68.02/68.05  May 18           -$24.42 mln   -$239.38 mln
     10-yr bond yield  8.02 pct     Month-to-date    -$582.81 mln  -$1.88 bln
                                    Year-to-date     $599.24 mln   -$3.55 bln
        
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
        
        
        ($1 = 67.9850 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Erum Khaled in Bengaluru)
      
