March 27, 2018 / 3:26 AM / 4 months ago
# Morning News Call - India, March 27
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        9:00 am: Bandhan Bank MD Chandra Shekhar Ghosh at the bank's listing
    ceremony in Mumbai.
        10:00 am: Finance Commission officials to hold conference with members of
    Parliament in New Delhi. 
        11:00 am: Budget session of Parliament resumes in New Delhi.
        11:30 am: Commerce Secretary Rita Teotia, BHEL Executive Director V.K.
    Chauhan at CII Exim Bank Conclave in new Delhi.
        12:30 pm: All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Council to announce new
    initiative in Mumbai. 
        1:00 pm: NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant at Atal Innovation Mission in New
    Delhi.
        
        TRADING INDIA FORUM - INDIA FIXED INCOME
        The Indian 10-year had a torrid time towards the end of 2017 and the
    beginning of 2018. The latest CPI readings seem to point to an extended pause by
    the RBI. What is in store for 2018 and when will (if) the RBI hike rates? We
    speak to Suyash Choudhary, Head of Fixed Income at IDFC Asset Management. To
    join the conversation, click on the link: here
        
        GMF: LIVECHAT - TRADE & FED FOCUS
    Markets in Asia reacted sharply to an alarming rise in protectionist rhetoric
    and risk of retaliation in US-China trade ties. The inclusion of a 30-day
    consultation period, however, allows time for negotiations and exemptions.
    Meanwhile, the Fed is expected to hike rates at least twice more in 2018, though
    inflation and other data will continue to guide as earlier. Jim Walker, founder
    and MD at Asianomics, will discuss the potential risks and opportunities for
    2018 at 09:30 am IST. To join the conversation, click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • ICICI Securities IPO raises lower than expected $540 million 
        ICICI Securities' initial public offering raised a lower-than-expected $540
    million after the Indian brokerage fell short of covering its order books
    against a backdrop of investor caution about rich valuations and a volatile
    stock market.
        • JSW Steel to invest $500 million in U.S. operations 
        India's JSW Steel Ltd said on Monday it would spend $500 million to build
    out its U.S. operations in Texas, amid heightened global trade tensions
    following U.S President Donald Trump's decision to pursue steep import
    tariffs.
        • Once hot favourite, India bonds lose their charm for foreign investors
        After betting strongly on Indian bonds last year, foreign investors are
    cutting their holdings as a tumbling rupee erodes their returns and economic
    risks cloud the outlook of a once-hot emerging market play.
        • China's OPPO embraces Xiaomi's flash sale gambit to grow Indian base 
    Chinese smartphone maker OPPO, which has ceded ground to Xiaomi in the Indian
    market, is looking to take a page out of its Chinese rival's marketing playbook
    with plans to hold its first online flash sale in the country early next
    week.
           
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • U.S. seeks China trade moves on autos, financials, chips -source
        Top Trump administration officials are asking China to cut tariffs on
    imported cars, allow foreign majority ownership of financial services firms and
    buy more U.S.-made semiconductors in negotiations to avoid plans to slap tariffs
    on a host of Chinese goods and a potential trade war.
        • GM says South Korean unit will file for bankruptcy if no union concessions
    by April 20
        General Motors said its loss-making South Korean operations would file for
    bankruptcy if its union did not agree to cut labour costs by April 20, the union
    said.
        • South Korea says watching Beijing 'very closely' amid reports of Kim visit
        Events are happening quickly on the Korean peninsula with planned summits
    between North and South Korea and the United States, a presidential official in
    Seoul said, amid reports that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is in China.
    
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        The SGX March Nifty Futures were trading at 10,165.50, up 0.2 percent from
    its previous close.
        The Indian rupee will likely open higher against the dollar as reports of
    trade negotiations between U.S. and China boosted regional currencies and risk
    assets.
        Indian government bonds are likely gain sharply as the federal government
    will borrow a lower-than-expected 2.88 trillion rupees in the first six months
    of the next financial year, boosting investor demand. The yield on the benchmark
    7.17 percent bond maturing in 2028 is likely to trade in 7.47 percent-7.54
    percent band today.
    
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • Wall Street scored its best day in 2-1/2 years and the Dow Jones
    Industrial Average saw its third-biggest point gain ever on Monday, as trade war
    fears eased on reports the United States and China are willing to renegotiate
    tariffs and trade imbalances.
        • Asian share markets rose sharply on Tuesday as reports of
    behind-the-scenes talks between the United States and China rekindled hopes a
    damaging trade war could be averted, in turn sapping the strength of the dollar
    and yen.
        • The safe haven Japanese yen sagged, as optimism that the United States and
    China could begin negotiations on trade helped ease concerns about a trade war,
    bolstering demand for riskier assets.
        • U.S. Treasury yields rose and the yield curve flattened on Monday
    following a lackluster two-year note auction, in a test of investor appetite
    following last week's strong run spurred by nervousness about a global trade
    war.
        • Oil prices rose, pushed up by concerns that tensions in the Middle East
    could lead to supply disruptions.
        • Gold prices inched lower amid reports of trade negotiations between the
    United States and China, which eased fears of a trade war and improved
    investors' appetite for riskier assets. 
        
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES   DEBT
     PNDF spot         64.81/64.84  March 26         -          $104.83 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.72 pct     Month-to-date    $1.97 bln  -$1.01 bln
                                    Year-to-date     $2.07 bln  $79.42 mln
     
            
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
     
    ($1 = 64.82 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Pathikrit Bandyopadhyay in Bengaluru)
      
