March 5, 2018 / 3:44 AM / 4 months ago
# Morning News Call - India, March 5
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        11:30 am: NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, TRAI Chairman R.S. Sharma, TRAI
    Secretary Sunil Kumar Gupta, Hinduja Group MD Ashok Mansukhani and other film
    industry officials at FICCI's "Creative Future: Coronation of Digital Consumer"
    event in Mumbai.
        
        GMF: LIVECHAT - CHINA FOCUS
        Zhou Hao, senior emerging markets economist at Commerzbank, will break down
    all the recent developments in China, including economic data and China's
    Constitutional amendment that will allo Xi to stayin office indefinitely. All
    this just ahead of the China's NPC meet on March 8. Most analysts expect the NPC
    to again set a GDP growth target of around 6.5% for 2018, below last year's
    actual 6.9 percent growth, and continue the financial deleveraging and
    anti-pollution drive. Yet signs of more pronounced weakness in data could
    quickly shift the focus from reining in risks to supporting the economy. To join
    the conversation at 09:30 am IST, click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • India's ruling party emerges stronger after polls in northeast
        India's ruling Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) on Saturday consolidated its
    position in the country's northeast after a landslide election victory in
    Tripura, ending 25 years of communist rule in the state.
        • India federal police arrest four more in PNB probe
        India's federal police have made four more arrests in the $2 billion fraud
    case involving state lender Punjab National Bank (PNB), widening the
    investigation of the biggest banking fraud in the country's history.
    
        • ArcelorMittal teams up with Nippon Steel to bid for India's Essar Steel
        ArcelorMittal, the world's largest steelmaker, said on Friday it would form
    a joint venture with Japan's Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal to bid for bankrupt
    steelmaker Essar Steel India Ltd.
        • India doesn't expect immediate hit on steel exports after US import curbs
    - govt official
        India does not expect any immediate impact from U.S. President Donald
    Trump's decision to impose curbs on steel imports, the steel ministry's top
    bureaucrat said on Friday.
        • India raises import tax on palm oil to highest in a decade
        India has raised import tax on crude and refined palm oil to the highest
    level in more than a decade, the government said in a statement on Thursday, as
    the world's biggest edible oil importer tried to support local farmers.
    
        • Alibaba unit invests $150 million in India's Zomato
        A unit of China's Alibaba Group Holding has invested $150 million in Zomato,
    valuing the Indian food search and delivery service at more than $1 billion, the
    companies said on Thursday.
        • State Bank of India raises lending rates
        State Bank of India, the country's top lender by assets, on Thursday raised
    marginal cost-based lending rates (MCLR) across most maturities, effective
    immediately.
        
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • China keeps growth target at 6.5 pct, stays focused on financial risks
        China aims to expand its economy by around 6.5 percent this year, the same
    as in 2017, while pressing ahead with its campaign to reduce risks in the
    financial system, Premier Li Keqiang said.
        • Italy vote points to stalemate with 5-Star in ascendancy
        Italian voters delivered a hung parliament on Sunday, flocking to
    anti-establishment and far-right parties in record numbers and casting the euro
    zone's third-largest economy into political gridlock, initial results showed.
    
        • Almost 2,500 GM Korea workers apply for voluntary redundancy package
    Almost 2,500 workers at General Motors' South Korean unit, equivalent to 15
    percent of its staff, have applied for a redundancy package that the U.S.
    automaker is offering as part of a drastic restructuring, union officials said.
    
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • The SGX Nifty Futures were trading at 10,340.00; Nifty 50 Index had closed
    at 10,458.35 on Thursday.
        • The Indian rupee will likely edge higher, as the ruling Bharatiya Janata
    Party won assembly elections in the North-eastern states, and as U.S. President
    Donald Trump's trade tariff threats weighed on the greenback.
        • Indian government bonds are likely to edge lower in early trade tracking
    firm U.S. Treasury yields. The yield on the 7.17 percent bond maturing in 2028
    is likely to trade in 7.75 percent-7.80 percent band today.
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • The S&P; 500 ended another turbulent week on an upbeat note Friday, but
    major indexes posted their worst week of losses since early February as
    President Donald Trump's threat to impose import tariffs on steel and aluminum
    rattled investors.
        • Asian shares were on the backfoot and the safe-haven yen rose amid fears
    of a global trade war, while the euro was choppy as investors worried Italy's
    national elections could deliver an anti-establishment government.
        • The euro clawed back earlier losses but remained prone to volatility as
    early counts in Italian elections pointed to stronger-than-expected results for
    euro-sceptic parties, with no major party blocs winning an outright majority.
    
        • U.S. Treasury yields rose on Friday, with the 10-year yield bouncing back
    from a three-week low as the Bank of Japan's chief hinted at a possible exit
    from its ultra-easy policies if inflation hits its target in its fiscal 2019.
    
        • Oil prices rose ahead of a meeting between OPEC and U.S. shale firms in
    Houston, raising expectations that oil producers would discuss further how to
    clear a global oil glut.
        • Gold prices rose as the dollar remained pressured amid fears of a global
    trade war following U.S. President Donald Trump's decision to impose tariffs on
    imports of aluminum and steel.
          
     CLOSE             FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES       DEBT         
     PNDF spot         65.20/65.23      March 1        $37.1 mln    -$177.38 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.74 pct         Month-to-date  --           --
                                        Year-to-date   $107.86 mln  $913.52 mln
     
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
     
    
    ($1 = 65.2100 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Nayyar Rasheed in Bengaluru)
      
