July 5, 2018 / 3:41 AM / 14 days ago
# Morning News Call - India, July 5
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        8:30 am: Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, NSE CEO Vikram
    Limaye at listing ceremony of debt securities of Indore Municipal Corporation in
    Mumbai.
        9:30 am: Commerce Secretary Rita Teaotia to release OECD-ICRIER report on
    "Agricultural Policies in India" at an event in New Delhi.
        11:00 am: Reliance Industries annual general meeting in Mumbai.
        
        
        GMF: COMMODITIES FOCUS
        Gavin Maguire, Reuters Editor-in-charge for commodities in Asia, joins us to
    discuss cues, views and charts guiding the commodity markets over the next few
    months at 9:30 am IST. To join the conversation, click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • WhatsApp in India says partnership with government, society needed to
    combat misinformation 
        Facebook Inc's WhatsApp messenger service has responded to a call from
    India's technology ministry to curb the spread of false information on its
    platform, saying such a task required a partnership between the pair as well as
    with society in general. 
        • India hikes crop prices as Modi woos farmers ahead of election 
        India on Wednesday raised the government-mandated price for summer-sown
    crops such as rice and cotton by the most since Prime Minister Narendra Modi
    came to power in 2014, as he looks to woo millions of poor farmers ahead of a
    general election next year. 
    
        • Thyssenkrupp, Tata Steel may need asset sales to get EU nod for JV 
        Top managers at Thyssenkrupp and Tata Steel have reached out to the European
    Commission to seek approval for a landmark joint venture deal, with legal
    experts and analysts saying they might have to sell assets to get it.
    
        • RBI tightens banks' statutory auditor rules
        India's central bank on Wednesday tightened rules on banks' statutory
    auditors saying it reserved the right to not approve appointments of such
    auditors for a specified period if their audit quality was not found
    satisfactory.
        • Carmaker Jaguar says 'bad Brexit' would mean it could not stay in UK
        Britain's biggest carmaker Jaguar Land Rover said on Wednesday a so-called
    "hard Brexit" would cost it $1.59 billion a year, curtailing its future
    operations in the United Kingdom.
        • Shriram Transport Finance says group firm will honour NCD repayment 
        Shriram Transport Finance said on Wednesday group firm SVL has the
    wherewithal to honour repayment on non-convertible debentures guaranteed by it.
    
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • China commerce ministry warns US tariffs will hit global supply chain
        China's commerce ministry said that U.S. tariffs will hit global supply
    chains including foreign companies in China, reiterating that Beijing does not
    want to fight a trade war started by the United States.
        • Iran threatens to cut cooperation with nuclear body after Trump move
        Iran could reduce its co-operation with the U.N. nuclear watchdog, President
    Hassan Rouhani told the body's head on Wednesday, after he warned U.S. President
    Donald Trump of "consequences" of fresh sanctions against Iranian oil
    sales.
        • Two Britons poisoned with Novichok nerve agent near where Russian spy was
    struck down
        Two British citizens are critically ill after they were exposed to Novichok,
    the same nerve agent that struck down a former Russian agent and his daughter in
    March, Britain's top counter-terrorism officer said on Wednesday.
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • The SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were little changed at 10,774.50.
        • The Indian rupee is expected to open little changed against the dollar as
    investors await minutes of the Federal Reserve's June meeting, which may provide
    cues about the potential impact of current trade tensions on the pace of future
    monetary tightening.
        • The Indian government bonds are likely to edge higher in early trade on
    short covering following a fall in crude oil prices. The yield on the benchmark
    7.17 percent bond maturing in 2028 is likely to trade in a 7.82 percent- 7.87
    percent band today. 
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • Asian stocks were shaky while major currencies barely budged, as financial
    markets remained in a state of anxious uncertainty on the eve of a U.S. deadline
    to slap tariffs on Chinese imports.
        • Major currencies were on tenterhooks on the eve of Washington's deadline
    to impose tariffs on Chinese imports while the yuan held steady after the
    central bank this week sought to stem its recent tumble.
        • Oil prices fell after U.S. President Donald Trump sent a strident tweet
    demanding that OPEC cut prices for crude.
        • Gold prices were little changed, after hitting a one-week high in the
    previous session, as the dollar eased and the markets awaited minutes from the
    U.S. Federal Reserve's June policy meeting later in day.
        
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES      DEBT
     PNDF spot         68.71/68.74  July 4           -$41.49 mln   $287.89 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.85 pct     Month-to-date    -$120.66 mln  $409.72 mln
                                    Year-to-date     -$908.09 mln  -$5.37 bln
     
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
        
        ($1 = 68.6850 Indian rupees)
        
        
    
     (Compiled by Priyanka Das in Bengaluru)
      
