June 29, 2018 / 3:18 AM / 20 days ago
# Morning News Call - India, June 29
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        11:30 am: Railway Minister Piyush Goyal at International Conference on
    Professionals of the Future in New Delhi.
        12:30 pm: Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan to chair national consultation
    meeting with state ministers in-charge of food and civil supplies in New Delhi.
        2:30 pm: Hindustan Unilever annual general meeting in Mumbai.
        2:30 pm: HDFC Bank annual general meeting in Mumbai.
        3:00 pm: Prime Minister Narendra Modi to interact with a delegation of about
    150 sugarcane farmers in New Delhi.
        5:00 pm: RBI to release weekly foreign exchange data in Mumbai.
    
        LIVECHAT- G7 FX CHARTING.
        Wilson Leung, chief market strategist at Trendsetter, joins us to discuss
    technical charts for G7 currencies at 09:30 am IST. To join the conversation,
    click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • EXCLUSIVE-India preparing for cut in oil imports from Iran-sources 
        India's oil ministry has asked refiners to prepare for a 'drastic reduction
    or zero' imports of Iranian oil from November, two industry sources said, the
    first sign that New Delhi is responding to a push by the United States to cut
    trade ties with Iran.
        • U.S. says India talks "a priority" after postponing twice
        U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said on Thursday that a
    top-level strategic dialogue with India will take place as soon as possible,
    after Washington put off the meeting for a second time in months.
        • Thyssenkrupp workers pave way for joint venture with Tata Steel 
        Thyssenkrupp's powerful labour representatives on Thursday signalled their
    support for a planned joint venture with Tata Steel, effectively guaranteeing
    that the landmark deal will be approved by the group's supervisory
    board.
        • Jet Airways says new Boeing 737 MAX aircraft to reduce costs 
        Jet Airways, India's biggest full-service carrier, on Thursday said its new
    Boeing 737 MAX 8 aircraft will enhance efficiency and reduce costs, a move that
    is likely to help the airline bring down losses and improve
    competitiveness.
        • Varroc Engineering $284 million IPO subscribed over three times 
        Indian automobile components manufacturer Varroc Engineering's initial
    public offering to raise about 19.55 billion rupees was subscribed more than
    three times on the last day of sale on Thursday.
        • India rethinks decision to split up gas utility Gail  
        India is working on plans to enable gas utility GAIL to keep its marketing
    and pipeline operations separate without breaking up the company, India's oil
    minister said on Thursday.
        • Sterlite, China's State Grid win Brazil power licenses 
        Sterlite, China's State Grid, and Colombia's Isa clinched licenses to build
    power transmission lines in Brazil in a government auction on Thursday that is
    expected to draw a total of $1.55 billion in investment.
    
       
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • Japan's Sharp axes share issue citing impact of U.S.-China trade friction
        Japan's Sharp has cancelled plans to issue up to $2 billion in new shares,
    saying trade friction between the United States and China has increased
    volatility in the stock market.
        • First Trump-Putin summit has Cold War backdrop, U.S. allies nervous
        U.S. President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin will meet
    for their first summit on July 16 in Helsinki, a venue famed for its Cold War
    diplomacy.
        • Japan's May factory output eases, labour market tightens as trade risk
    dims outlook
        Japan's industrial output declined far less than expected last month and the
    jobless rate hit its lowest in over 25 years in a sign of a gradual economic
    recovery from a slump in the first quarter, though risks to the outlook has
    increased from U.S. trade protectionism.
    
    
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
       • The SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were trading up 0.1 percent at
    10,589.50.
        • The Indian rupee is expected to open little changed against the U.S.
    currency amid continued weakness in most regional currencies and likelihood of
    the central bank's dollar sales. 
       • Indian government bonds will likely fall ahead of a weekly auction of notes
    today and as state governments plan to raise a higher amount of funds through
    bonds in second quarter of this financial year. The yield on the benchmark 7.17
    percent bond maturing in 2028 is likely to trade in a 7.94 percent - 7.99
    percent band today, a trader with a private bank said.
    
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • U.S. stocks rose on Thursday as technology and other growth sectors
    rebounded from the prior day's declines and financial shares snapped a 13-day
    losing streak.
        • Asian shares remained near nine-month lows despite small gains on Wall
    Street overnight, as ongoing concerns over global trade frictions dampened
    sentiment, though a move to ease foreign investment curbs in China could boost
    markets there.
        • The dollar held firm versus the yen, supported by quarter-end buying as
    well as an absence of any fresh escalation in trade-related tensions between the
    United States and its major trading partners.
        • U.S. Treasury yields edged higher on Thursday but held near one-month lows
    as fears about trade wars harming global growth kept up demand for safe haven
    bonds, while month- and quarter-end rebalancing added to bond buying.
        • Oil prices fell amid concerns about trade frictions between the United
    States and other major economies, although crude market conditions remain tight
    due to supply disruptions and generally high demand.
        • Gold prices edged up, after slipping to a more than six-month low in the
    previous session, as the dollar softened from recent highs, but the yellow metal
    was headed for its worst monthly performance since November 2016.
        
    
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES      DEBT
     PNDF spot         68.77/68.80  June 28          -$138.31 mln  -$179.53 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.93 pct     Month-to-date    -$697.97 mln  -$1.63 bln
                                    Year-to-date     -$942.62 mln  -$5.86 bln
     
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
        
        ($1 = 68.83 Indian rupees)
        
        
    
     (Compiled by Shradha Singh in Bengaluru)
      
