March 6, 2018 / 3:31 AM / 4 months ago
# Morning News Call - India, March 6
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        11:00 am: Budget session of Parliament continues in New Delhi.
        1:30 pm: Bajaj Finserv MD Sanjiv Bajaj at an event in Mumbai.
        6:30 pm: Farm Minister Radha Mohan Singh, Mahindra Group Executive Chairman
    Anand Mahindra and M&M; MD Pawan Goenka at "Mahindra Samriddhi India Agri Awards"
    in New Delhi.
            
        LIVECHAT - UK ECONOMY
        UK economic prospects with Andrew Goodwin, lead UK economist, Oxford
    Economics at 1530 IST. To join the conversation, click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • Services industry contracts in February as inflation hits demand
        Activity in India's service industries contracted in February for the first
    time since November as rising price pressures led to a decline in new businesses
    orders, a private survey showed on Monday.
        
        • Mortgage lender HDFC raises $291 million from share sale
        Mortgage lender Housing Development Finance Corp said it raised $291 million
    in a share sale to institutional investors.
               
        • Saudi gives Air India overflight rights for its Israel routes
        Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Monday that Saudi Arabia
    had granted Air India permission to fly over its territory on its new routes to
    and from Tel Aviv.
        
        • Tax hike to slash palm oil imports, boost soyoil, sunflower oil buying 
        A hike in India's import tax on palm oil could dent overseas purchases by
    the world's biggest edible oil importer, while making imports of soyoil and
    sunflower oil lucrative for the country's refiners, industry officials told
    Reuters.
        
        • Volkswagen's Skoda to go it alone in India - Handelsblatt
        Volkswagen's Skoda division, commissioned by the carmaker to explore an
    entry-level car platform with a focus on India, could start selling vehicles in
    the country in 2021, its chief told a German business paper.
              
        • Severn Trent says closed Jaguar Land Rover plant can now operate normally
        Water company Severn Trent said that carmaker Jaguar Land Rover's (JLR)
    plant in central England can use water normally, hours after JLR had agreed to
    stop production at the site.
        
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • China boosts defence spending, rattling its neighbours' nerves
        China on Monday unveiled its largest defence spending increase in three
    years, setting an 8.1 percent growth target this year, fuelling an ambitious
    military modernisation programme and making its neighbours nervous.
        
        • Trump faces pushback on tariffs but says he will not back down
        U.S. President Donald Trump faced growing pressure on Monday from political
    and diplomatic allies as well as U.S. companies urging him to pull back from
    proposed steel and aluminum tariffs, although he said he would stick to his
    guns.
        
        • N.Korea leader wants to advance Korea ties, makes agreement with South
    -KCNA
    North Korean leader Kim Jong Un met senior South Korean government officials for
    the first time and said it is his "firm will to vigorously advance" inter-Korean
    ties and pursue reunification, the North's official news agency said.
      
            
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • The SGX Nifty Futures were trading at 10,404.00, up 0.4 pct from its
    previous close.
        • The Indian rupee is expected to open higher against the dollar, buoyed by
    rebound in regional equities from the U.S. tariff-related selloff. 
        • Indian government bonds are likely to edge lower in early session ahead of
    a heavy supply of state bonds. Higher U.S. Treasury yields will also weigh on
    demand, traders said. The yield on the 7.17 pct bond maturing in 2028 is likely
    to trade in 7.76 pct-7.82 pct band today. 
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • U.S. stocks rallied on Monday as fears of a global trade war ebbed with
    investors betting that U.S. President Donald Trump would back down on his threat
    to impose hefty tariffs on steel and aluminum imports.
        • Asian shares regained some ground after U.S. President Donald Trump faced
    growing pressure from political allies to pull back from proposed steel and
    aluminium tariffs, easing investor worries about an imminent trade war.
    
        • The dollar edged higher versus the yen, supported by receding fears about
    a trade war stemming from U.S. resident Donald Trump's proposed tariffs on
    imported steel and aluminium.
        • Treasuries yields rose on Monday afternoon as the U.S. stock market
    recovered and fears of a trade war eased after senior Republicans urged US
    President Donald Trump to reconsider his threat to impose tariffs on imported
    steel and aluminum.
        • Oil prices extended gains for the fifth straight day, underpinned by
    robust demand forecasts and prospects for informal contacts sought by OPEC with
    U.S. shale oil producers at a key industry meeting in Houston this week.
        • Gold prices edged up on a softer dollar, amid worries about a global trade
    war even as U.S. President Donald Trump faced pressure from political and trade
    allies over his plan for steel and aluminum tariffs.    
            
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES     DEBT
     PNDF spot         65.09/65.12  March 5          -$56.44 mln  $36.09 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.76 pct     Month-to-date    $64.98 mln   -$141.29 mln
                                    Year-to-date     $172.84 mln  $949.61 mln
     
            
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
    ($1 = 65.0200 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Swathi Nair in Bengaluru)
      
