August 22, 2017 / 3:13 AM / a year ago
# Morning News Call - India, August 22
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        Bank unions on nationwide strike today to protest against government's PSU
    bank consolidation plans.
        10:00 am: Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu, Minister of Heavy Industries Anant
    Geete, Junior Defense Minister Subhash Bhamre, Heavy Industries Secretary Girish
    Shankar, Adani Ports President Amit Uplenchwar, Monnet Ispat Chairman Sandeep
    Jajodia at ASSOCHAM manufacturing conference in New Delhi.
     10:00 am: Food and Safety Standards Authority of India CEO Pawan Kumar
    Aggarwal, Niti Aayog Advisor Health Alok Kumar, Health Ministry Additional
    Secretary Manoj Jhalani at CII Public Health conference in New Delhi. 
        10:30 am: Inter-Ministerial Group on telecom sector meets in New Delhi.
        10:30 am: Hindustan Copper annual general meeting in Kolkata.
        11:00 am: Trade Minister Nirmala Sitharaman at inauguration of national
    workshop on enforcement of intellectual property rights in New Delhi.
        11:00 am: Finance Minister Arun Jaitley to chair FSDC meeting with all
    financial sector regulators in New Delhi.
        11:30 am: Hyundai Motor India launch of next-gen Verna in New Delhi.
        12:00 pm: Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad at National
    conference on emerging opportunities through CSC in New Delhi.
        3:00 pm: Larsen & Toubro annual general meeting in Mumbai.
        3:00 pm: Tata Motors annual general meeting in Mumbai.
    
        
        TRADING INDIA FORUM: CAMPAIGN MANAGEMENT- BEHIND THE SCENES
        While winners (and losers) grab all the headlines post an election, there is
    an enormous amount of work that goes on behind the scenes. Do Indians still vote
    only on caste/religion or have they graduated to the development plank? How does
    social media play a part in today's data driven world? To answer this and more
    we have Dhruv Sharma at 11:00 am IST, who has worked as a campaign manager for
    some of the India's top politicians including Bihar's CM Nitish Kumar. To join
    the conversation, click on the link: here
        
        GMF: MARKETS FOCUS
        After a roller coaster ride amid geopolitical tensions this summer, Asian
    stock markets are bracing for more uncertainties as the Federal Reserve is
    expected to announce balance sheet reduction plan this Fall. Jim Walker from
    Asianomics will discuss the potential risks and opportunities for the rest of
    2017 at 9:30 am IST. To join the conversation, click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • Rosneft seals first Asian refinery deal with Essar Oil purchase
        Russian oil major Rosneft and partners closed their $12.9 billion purchase
    of Indian refiner Essar Oil on Monday, giving them a foothold in one of the
    world's fastest growing oil users.
        • Tata Motors CEO says to invest $625 million to boost sales
        Tata Motors will invest more than 40 billion rupees ($625 million) to boost
    sales of its passenger and commercial vehicles, its chief executive said on
    Monday, as the Indian automaker looks to return to profit in its domestic
    business.
        • McDonald's to shut 169 outlets in India amid dispute with local partner
        Fast food chain McDonald's said on Monday it planned to shut all 169 of its
    restaurants in India's northern and eastern regions, escalating a dispute with
    its local partner and potentially putting thousands of workers out of jobs.
    
        • Infosys shares extend losses as leadership issues outweigh share buyback
        A planned $2 billion share buyback by Infosys failed to lift shares in
    India's No. 2 IT services company, which dropped on Monday for a second straight
    trading day on concerns over a dispute between its board and founders.
    
        • 'Extremely dissatisfied' China blames India for border scuffle
        China laid the blame at India's door on Monday for an altercation along
    their border in the western Himalayas involving soldiers from both of the Asian
    giants.
        
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • Trump commits to more troops in Afghanistan, vows 'fight to win' 
        President Donald Trump opened the door on Monday night to an increase in
    U.S. troops in Afghanistan as part of a retooled strategy for the region,
    overcoming his own doubts about America's longest war and vowing "a fight to
    win."
        • BHP to quit U.S. shale business as annual profit surges 
        Global mining giant BHP Billiton committed to quitting its underperforming
    U.S. shale oil and gas business on Tuesday, as it posted a surge in annual
    underlying profit to $6.7 billion.
        • U.S. Navy announces fleet-wide probe after new warship collision; 10
    sailors missing
        The U.S. Navy announced on Monday a fleet-wide probe and plans for temporary
    halts in operations to focus on safety, as it searched for 10 sailors missing
    after the fourth major accident in the U.S. Pacific fleet this year.
    
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • The SGX Nifty Futures was trading at 9,807.50, trading up 0.35 pct from
    its previous close.
        • The Indian rupee will likely open little changed against the dollar, in
    line with most Asian currencies, as investors await monetary policy cues from
    the Federal Reserve's annual central banking conference in Jackson Hole this
    week. 
        • Indian government bonds are likely to trade lower in early session, ahead
    of fresh supply of state bonds today, while weekly debt auction later this week
    may also weigh in on demand. The yield on the benchmark 6.79 pct bond maturing
    in 2027 is likely to trade in a 6.50 pct-6.54 pct band. 
            
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • The benchmark U.S. S&P; 500 stock index ended up slightly on Monday after
    two days of declines, though a drop in oil prices weighed on energy shares and
    tensions between the United States and North Korea kept investors on edge.
        • Asian shares edged higher, taking solace from modest gains on Wall Street
    even as investors remained wary ahead of the annual central banking conference
    in Jackson Hole later this week.
        • The dollar held steady against a basket of currencies, with traders
    focusing on the annual central banking conference in Jackson Hole this week for
    insights on the outlook for monetary policy.
        • U.S. Treasuries were steady on Monday as investors awaited speeches by top
    global central bankers later this week for further signals about monetary
    policy, with no major data releases to set market direction.
        • Oil prices inched up, lifted by indications that supply is gradually
    tightening, especially in the United States.
        • Gold prices were a touch lower amid a steady dollar, with investors eying
    developments on the geopolitical front and remaining cautious ahead of an annual
    central banking meeting in Jackson Hole later this week.
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES      DEBT
     PNDF spot         64.09/64.12  August 21        -$309.3 mln   $173.55 mln
     10-yr bond yield  6.8 pct      Month-to-date    -$1.48 bln    $1.34 bln
                                    Year-to-date     $7.50 bln     $22.48 bln
     
        
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
     
        ($1 = 64.13 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Nivedita Balu in Bengaluru)
      
