March 1, 2018 / 3:35 AM / 5 months ago
# Morning News Call - India, March 1
    
    (India Morning Newsletter will not be published on Friday, March 2, as markets
    are closed for Holi)
    
        To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        9:00 am: Defense Minister Nirmala Sitharaman at Annual Army Seminar in New
    Delhi. 
        10:30 am: Finance Minister Arun Jaitley and State Bank of India Chairman
    Rajnish Kumar at Civil Accounts Day function in New Delhi.
        
        LIVECHAT- COMMODITIES FOCUS
        Oil prices are pressured as high U.S. crude exports outweigh an unexpected
    drop in inventories in the world's biggest fuel consumer. Meanwhile, demand
    outlook for metals looks bright with China back from its Lunar New Year holiday,
    while cautiousness persists in gold thanks to the Fed. Clyde Russell, Reuters
    Asia commodities and energy columnist, talks on the subject at 0930 IST. To join
    the conversation, click on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • India regains status as fastest growing major economy
        India regained its status as the world's fastest growing major economy in
    the October-December quarter, surpassing China for the first time in a year as
    government spending, manufacturing and services all picked up.
        
        • Federal police arrest auditor at PNB as investigation widens
        The federal police on Wednesday arrested an auditor of a Punjab National
    Bank branch at the centre of an alleged $2 billion fraud, a police spokesman
    said, bringing the number of bank employees held to seven as the investigation
    widens.
        
        • Mobile carrier Aircel files for bankruptcy
        Mobile carrier Aircel Ltd filed for bankruptcy on Wednesday, pressured by a
    high debt pile and mounting losses following a price war triggered by a telecom
    upstart. 
                
        • Bharti Airtel wants to get out of towers, committed to Africa
        Bharti Airtel is exploring merger and sale options for its mobile towers
    businesses as Chairman Sunil Bharti Mittal seeks to get out of the
    infrastructure game and focus on connectivity.
        
        • H.G. Infra Engg's $70.9 mln IPO subscribed nearly 5 times
        Construction firm H.G. Infra Engineering Ltd's initial public offering to
    raise up to $70.92 million was subscribed 4.9 times on the last day of the sale
    on Wednesday.
        
        • India to double state purchases of oilseeds, pulses to help farmers
        India's cabinet approved on Wednesday doubling state purchases of oilseeds
    and pulses from farmers, in a bid to boost local output and prevent distressed
    sales.   
               
        • Police probing graft case arrest son of former finmin Chidambaram
        The federal police arrested the son of former finance minister P.
    Chidambaram on Wednesday, but the agency which has been investigating suspected
    criminal misconduct related to approvals of investment deals, did not reveal the
    charges.
        
        • Amazon launches music streaming service in India
        Amazon.com launched its music-streaming service in India on Wednesday, its
    latest offering to drive customers to shop more on its flagship e-commerce
    platform.    
        
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • China Feb factory growth picks up to 6-month high - Caixin PMI
        Growth in China's manufacturing sector unexpectedly picked up to a six-month
    high in February as factories rushed to replenish inventories to meet rising new
    orders, a private survey showed on Thursday.
        
        • In blow to Trump, top aide Hope Hicks to leave White House
    Hope Hicks, one of U.S. President Donald Trump's longest-serving and most
    trusted aides, is resigning from her job as White House communications director,
    a blow to the president, whose inner circle has been depleted by firings and
    clouded by scandal.  
               
        • Walmart joins Dick's Sporting Goods in raising age to buy guns
        Walmart, the largest U.S. retailer, joined Dick's Sporting Goods in raising
    the minimum age to purchase firearms to 21 after the massacre at a Florida high
    school that has reopened a fierce debate over gun control in America.
    
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • The SGX Nifty Futures were trading at 10,457.00, down 0.6 pct from its
    previous close.
        • The Indian rupee will likely open lower against the dollar, as ongoing
    concerns about higher U.S. inflation and interest rates pressured risk assets
    and boosted the greenback. 
        • Indian government bonds may ease in early trade after a
    faster-than-expected economic growth in the third quarter of this fiscal year
    boosts expectations of monetary policy tightening going ahead.The yield on the
    7.17 pct bond maturing in 2028 is likely to trade in a 7.70 pct-7.76 pct band
    today.  
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • U.S. stocks sold off late to end sharply lower on Wednesday, dragged down
    by continued worries over rising interest rates, and the Dow and S&P; 500 capped
    their worst months since January 2016.
        • Asian stocks fell after Wall Street marked its worst monthly performance
    in two years as the impact from new Federal Reserve chief Jerome Powell's
    hawkish-sounding comments reverberated across the broader risk asset
    markets.
        • The dollar held firm, drawing support after the Federal Reserve's new
    chief Jerome Powell struck an optimistic tone on the U.S. economy in a boost to
    rate hawks that sent global stocks tumbling.
        • The spread between short- and longer-dated U.S. Treasury yields shrank
    further on Wednesday after Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell's optimistic
    outlook on the economy raised bets the U.S. central bank may raise interest
    rates faster.
        • Oil prices extended declines after official data showed a
    larger-than-expected increase in U.S. crude inventories and a surprise build in
    gasoline stocks.
        • Gold prices dipped, pulled down as the dollar remained strong following
    comments from Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell that fanned concerns of
    faster-than-expected hikes in U.S. interest rates.
        
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES      DEBT
     PNDF spot         65.23/65.26  February 28      -$268.56 mln  -$281.68 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.73 pct     Month-to-date    -$1.67 bln    -$379.74 mln
                                    Year-to-date     $371.87 mln   $1.09 bln
       
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
     
    
    
    ($1 = 65.2000 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Swathi Nair in Bengaluru)
      
