May 2, 2018 / 3:41 AM / 3 months ago
# Morning News Call - India, May 2
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        04:30 pm: Junior Aviation Minister Jayant Sinha to address press conference
    on government's investment plan for AAI airports in New Delhi.
        
        LIVECHAT - U.S.-IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL
        As the May 12 deadline for U.S. President Donald Trump to decide on
    restoring economic sanctions on Tehran looms, we discuss the issues at hand with
    Dr. James Walsh, senior research associate at the Massachusetts Institute of
    Technology's Security Studies Program at 09:30 am IST.To join the conversation,
    click on the link: here
        
        TRADING INDIA FORUM- INDIA EQUITY MARKETS
    Sunil Singhania,Ex-Global Head of Equities, Reliance Capital and Founder at
    Abakkus Asset Manager LLP, shares his views with us at 11:00 am IST.To join the
    conversation, click on the link: here
           
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • L&T; seals $2.1 billion deal to sell electrical unit to Schneider 
        Larsen & Toubro has agreed to sell its electrical and automation business
    for $2.1 billion to Schneider Electric, partnering with Temasek, in the biggest
    M&A; deal announced in the Indian market this year.
        • EXCLUSIVE-India rejects U.S. request on price caps on medical devices
        India has told the United States it won't abstain from capping prices for
    more medical devices, regardless of pressure to rethink its stance after price
    controls on heart stents and knee implants spoilt the market for some U.S.
    firms, sources familiar with the matter said.
        • India extends deadline to receive initial bids for Air India
        India has extended the deadline to receive initial bids for its stake in
    state-run carrier Air India to May 31 from May 14 earlier, according to a
    notification issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation on Tuesday. 
        • Kotak Mahindra Bank Q4 profit up 15 percent on lending growth
        Kotak Mahindra Bank reported a 15 percent rise in fourth-quarter net profit
    on higher interest and fee incomes and as its bad loans fell.
        • Two suitors for India's Fortis raise bids by Tuesday deadline
        Cash-strapped Indian hospital operator Fortis Healthcare said on Tuesday
    that two of its five suitors had boosted their bids to invest in the company as
    of a deadline for binding offers on Tuesday.
        • India to allow foreigners to invest in T-bills
        RBI said it will allow foreign portfolio investors to invest in treasury
    bills issued by the federal government, in its latest move to ease foreign
    investment rules.
        • Kuwait Petroleum eyes stake in India's Bina refinery 
        Kuwait Petroleum International is in talks to buy 24 percent of the Bina
    joint venture refinery in central India, two Indian and two foreign sources
    said, as the Middle East nation wants to increase its South Asian market share.
    
        • Hindustan Zinc March-qtr profit falls 18 percent
        Hindustan Zinc, a unit of Vedanta, on Monday posted an 18 percent fall in
    fourth-quarter net profit, hurt by lower zinc sales.
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • Apple's $100 billion stock buyback overshadows iPhone
        Apple on Tuesday reported resilient iPhone sales in the face of waning
    global demand and promised $100 billion in additional stock buybacks, reassuring
    investors that its decade-old smartphone invention had life in it
    yet.
        • Japan April services activity grows fastest in 6 mths-PMI
        Activity in Japan's services sector expanded at the fastest pace in six
    months in April as new orders picked up, a private survey showed on Wednesday,
    suggesting the economy got off to a strong start in the second quarter.
    
        • Pushing to bury Iran deal, Israel says no one wants war with Tehran
        Israel said on Tuesday it does not seek war with Iran and suggested U.S.
    President Donald Trump backed Israel's latest attempt to kill the 2015 Iran
    nuclear deal by disclosing purported evidence of past Iranian nuclear arms work.
    
        
         LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • The SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were trading at 10,749.50, down 0.1
    percent from its previous close. 
        • The Indian rupee is likely to open marginally lower as a jump in the
    dollar index to four-month highs overshadows the central bank move to ease rules
    for foreign investment in the nation's bonds.
        • Indian government bonds are expected to rise today as the Reserve Bank of
    India has allowed foreign investment in government securities with a residual
    maturity of below three years.The yield on the 7.17 percent bond maturing in
    2028 is likely to trade in 7.72 percent- 7.76 percent band today. 
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • The S&P; 500 edged higher on Tuesday after comments from a Trump
    administration official on trade with China and the Mexican economy minister on
    the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement provided cause for
    optimism.
        • Asian equities held steady, while the dollar traded near a four-month high
    as investors await the Federal Reserve's upcoming policy statement for clues on
    the future pace of U.S. monetary tightening.
        • The dollar held near a four-month high against a basket of major
    currencies, buoyed by the outlook for a strong U.S. economy and rising yields
    amid signs of slowdown elsewhere, especially in Europe.
        • U.S. Treasury yields rose on Tuesday, with prices pressured ahead of a
    quarterly refunding announcement that is expected to show more supply as the
    government seeks to finance its massive tax cut program and increased fiscal
    spending plan.
        • Oil prices were stable, supported by concerns that the United States may
    re-impose sanctions on major exporter Iran, although soaring U.S. supplies
    capped gains.
        • Gold prices edged up, having fallen almost one percent in the previous
    session on the back of a stronger U.S. dollar to hit their lowest level this
    year.
        
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES  DEBT
     PNDF spot         66.37/66.40  April 30           -       $3.75 mln
     10-yr bond yield      -        Month-to-date      -       -$2.38 bln
                                    Year-to-date       -       -$1.66 bln
     
        
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
        
        ($1 = 66.66 Indian rupees)
        
        
    
     (Compiled by Priyanka Das in Bengaluru)
      
