July 17, 2018 / 3:22 AM / 2 days ago
# Morning News Call - India, July 17
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        TRADING INDIA FORUM - TRADE WAR EFFECTS ON INDIA
        Trade wars have begun in earnest with President Trump firing 2nd shots over
    China with proposed tariffs over imports of $200 billion. India stands at an
    interesting position amidst all the firing. China and the U.S. are India's top 2
    trading partners. How should India respond to President Trump while sharing a
    complicated relationship with China? Atul Kaushik, former Joint Secretary of
    Department of Justice (India), talks about it at 11:00am IST. To join the
    conversation, click on the link: here
        
        LIVECHAT- TRADE WARS
        Rob Carnell, head of research and chief economist for Asia-Pacific at ING
    Bank, joins us to discuss the fallouts of the United States' protectionist
    rhetoric, and how deep China could dig in its ammunition to retaliate. What
    would this mean for the Chinese, U.S. and other economies, and also for the Fed
    for its future rate path. To join the conversation at 12:00pm IST, click on the
    link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • State insurer LIC to take majority stake in IDBI Bank
    State-run Life Insurance Corp of India's board on Monday approved a proposal to
    acquire a 51 percent stake in IDBI Bank, in a move that will provide the
    embattled lender much-needed capital to set aside for bad loans.
        • Hindustan Unilever Q1 profit rises but lags estimates
    Consumer goods maker Hindustan Unilever Ltd posted a 19 percent rise in its
    first-quarter profit on Monday but slightly missed analysts' expectations as
    cost of materials climbed.
        • Trade ministry urges duty on Chinese solar cells, modules
    India's trade ministry on Monday recommended imposing a 25 percent duty on
    imports of solar cells and modules from China for one year to try to counter
    what it sees as a threat to domestic solar equipment manufacturing.
        • Spicejet in talks with planemakers over long-haul options
    Indian budget airline Spicejet is in talks with aircraft makers over planes that
    would help its ambitions to fly long-haul, the carrier's chairman said on
    Monday.
        • Telecom regulator recommends stricter data security rules
    India's telecom regulator on Monday said the existing framework for protection
    of personal data by companies and service providers was insufficient and
    recommended stricter rules to tackle data breaches.
        
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • Trump backs Putin on election meddling at summit, stirs fierce criticism
    Standing side by side with Vladimir Putin, U.S. President Donald Trump refused
    on Monday to blame the Russian leader for meddling in the 2016 U.S. election,
    casting doubt on the findings of his own intelligence agencies and sparking a
    storm of criticism at home.
        • U.S. launches five WTO challenges to retaliatory tariffs
    The United States launched five separate World Trade Organization dispute
    actions on Monday challenging retaliatory tariffs imposed by China, the European
    Union, Canada, Mexico and Turkey following U.S. duties on steel and aluminum.
    
        • Fed's 'good place' U.S. economy heads for congressional review
    Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell takes his upbeat view of the U.S. economy
    to Capitol Hill, with markets and many of Powell's colleagues expecting two more
    interest rate increases this year amid a continued economic expansion.
    
        
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were down 0.2 percent at 10,926.50.
        
        The Indian rupee is expected to open higher against the dollar after Brent
    crude extended its fall, dropping to the lowest level since mid-April.
        
        Indian government bonds are likely to open higher tracking an overnight fall
    in crude oil prices that eases some inflation concerns. The yield on the
    benchmark 7.17 percent bond maturing in 2028 is likely to trade in a 7.75
    percent-7.81 percent band today.
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • The S&P; 500 ended slightly lower on Monday following a drop in oil prices
    that weighed on energy shares and offset a jump in financials as Bank of
    America's results reinforced expectations of a strong U.S. earnings season.
        • Asian stocks sagged, weighed by a sharp decline in crude oil prices as
    Libyan ports reopened, while the dollar steadied ahead of Federal Reserve
    Chairman Jerome Powell's first congressional testimony.
        • The dollar slightly gained against its major peers, as investors awaited
    Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell's first congressional testimony for any
    clues on the pace of U.S. interest rate rises.
        • U.S. Treasury yields increased on Monday with the two-year yield hitting a
    near decade peak as domestic retail sales recorded growth for a fifth straight
    month in June, supporting the view of solid economic growth in the second
    quarter.
        • Brent crude prices rose from a three-month low after more oil workers went
    on strike in Norway, supporting a market that has been dominated by oversupply
    issues in recent days.
        • Gold prices were steady as the U.S. dollar remained largely unchanged
    ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell's first congressional
    testimony.
        
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES      DEBT
     PNDF spot         68.63/68.66  July 16          -$91.33 mln   -$15.32 mln
     10-yr bond yield  7.80 pct     Month-to-date    -$178.37 mln  -$288.32 mln
                                    Year-to-date     -$965.80 mln  -$6.07 bln
     
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
     
    
    
    ($1 = 68.5400 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Yoganand KN in Bengaluru)
      
