May 22, 2018 / 3:12 AM / 2 months ago
# Morning News Call - India, May 22
    
    To access the newsletter, click on the link:
     
     here
        
        
    If you would like to receive this newsletter via email, please register at: here
        
        
        FACTORS TO WATCH
        9:30 am: Water Resources Minister Nitin Gadkari at inauguration of a
    workshop in New Delhi.
        12:00 pm: JM Financial Credit Solutions press conference on forthcoming
    public issue of non-convertible debentures in Mumbai.
        3:00 pm: Farm Minister Radha Mohan Singh to release Model Contract Farming
    and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2018 in New Delhi. 
        LIVECHAT- RATINGS
        We take a look at the outlook for sovereign ratings with Nichola James,
    co-head of sovereign ratings at DBRS at 2:30 pm. To join the conversation, click
    on the link: here
        
        
        INDIA TOP NEWS
        • Three directors quit as takeover fight for India's Fortis drags on 
        Three directors of India's Fortis Healthcare FOHE.NS have quit ahead of a
    shareholder vote on Tuesday to decide their future, the company said, the latest
    twist in a prolonged takeover for one of the country's largest hospital
    operators.
        • Top executives at India's fraud-hit PNB misled central bank, police allege
        Senior executives at India's Punjab National Bank misled the central bank in
    late 2016 over the lender's handling of the financial messaging system and
    credit guarantees that were at the centre of a more than $2 billion fraud,
    Indian police alleged in a charge sheet filed in court.
        • U.S. Supreme Court takes up dispute over power plant in India
        The U.S. Supreme Court on Monday agreed to consider reviving a lawsuit by
    Indian villagers seeking to hold a Washington-based international financial
    institution responsible for widespread environmental damage they blame on a
    power plant it financed.
        • Indostar Capital Finance rises 6.1 percent on market debut
        Shares of Indostar Capital Finance Ltd rose as much as 6.08 percent on their
    trading debut on Monday after the non-banking finance firm's initial public
    offering raised 18.44 billion rupees.
        • MCX launches India's first copper options 
        India's Multi Commodity Exchange said it launched the country's first copper
    options contracts on Monday.
        
        
        GLOBAL TOP NEWS
        • Trade war fears ebb as U.S., China agree to continue talks
        Washington and Beijing both claimed victory on Monday as the world's two
    largest economies stepped back from the brink of a global trade war and agreed
    to hold further talks to boost U.S. exports to China.
        • Prodded by Trump, FBI to look into complaint about its 2016 tactics
        The Justice Department agreed on Monday to investigate "any irregularities"
    in FBI tactics related to President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign after Trump
    questioned whether an FBI informant had been planted into his political
    organization.
        • U.S. toughens stance on Iran, lists sweeping demands
    The United States on Monday demanded Iran make sweeping changes -- from dropping
    its nuclear program to pulling out of the Syrian civil war -- or face severe
    economic sanctions as the Trump administration hardened its approach to Tehran.
    
            
        
        LOCAL MARKETS OUTLOOK
        (As reported by NewsRise)
        • SGX Nifty nearest-month futures were trading down 0.3 percent at
    10,514.50.
        • Indian government bonds are likely to ease in early trade as the central
    bank did not announce an open market operation to buy notes, as some traders had
    expected. The yield on the benchmark 7.17 percent bond maturing in 2028 is
    likely to trade in 7.80 percent-7.86 percent. 
        • The Indian rupee will likely open marginally higher against the U.S.
    currency after the dollar index pulled back from its highest level this year. 
        
        
        GLOBAL MARKETS
        • U.S. stocks rose on Monday and gains in industrials helped propel the Dow
    to a more than two-month closing high, after a truce between the United States
    and China calmed fears that a trade war might be imminent.
        • The dollar hovered near four-month highs on renewed optimism about global
    growth as the United States and China agreed to drop their tariff threats, while
    oil stayed at multi-year peaks over potential sanctions in Venezuela.
    
        • U.S. Treasuries were steady on Monday as investors evaluated whether last
    week's selloff that sent benchmark yields to almost 7-year highs was overdone,
    and before demand for U.S. debt will be tested by new supply.
        • Oil prices rose amid worries that Venezuela's crude output could drop
    further following a disputed presidential election in the country and with
    potential sanctions on the OPEC-member.
        • Gold prices were largely steady, after posting a fresh low for the
    year-to-date in the previous session, as the U.S. dollar took a breather from
    its recent rally to trade below a five-month high. 
        
                       CLOSE        FII INVESTMENTS  EQUITIES      DEBT
     PNDF spot         68.03/68.06  May 21           -$72.82 mln   -$227.54 mln
     10-yr bond yield  8 pct        Month-to-date    -$623.38 mln  -$2.11 bln
                                    Year-to-date     $558.67 mln   -$3.77 bln
        
        
        For additional data:
        India govt bond market volumes                 
        Stock market reports                
        Non-deliverable forwards data              
        Corporate debt stories               [IN CORPD]
        Local market closing/intraday levels [IN SNAPSHOT]
        Monthly inflows                      [INFLOWS RTRS TABLE IN]
        
        
        ($1 = 68.1100 Indian rupees)
    
     (Compiled by Erum Khaled in Bengaluru)
      
