April 5, 2018 / 2:11 AM / 3 months ago
# PRECIOUS-Gold edges lower as fears of all-out U.S.-China trade war ease
    
        April 5 (Reuters) - Gold prices fell on Thursday, after
    hitting a one-week high in the previous session, as the dollar
    steadied and equities recovered on the United States's
    willingness to negotiate on tariffs with China, easing fears of
    a full-blown trade war.
        
        FUNDAMENTALS  
        * Spot gold        was down 0.2 percent at $1,331 per ounce
    as of 0052 GMT, and the U.S. gold futures         fell 0.4
    percent to $1,335.10 an ounce.
        * Retaliation from China, the world's largest gold consumer,
    lifted spot gold prices to a one-week high of $1,348.06 per
    ounce on Wednesday as the U.S. dollar tumbled against the yen
    and equities dipped.
        * The dollar held steady against the yen on Thursday after
    recovering against the safe-haven Japanese currency as stocks
    bounced back from a sell-off triggered by an escalating
    U.S.-China trade spat.                   
        * The United States voiced willingness on Wednesday to
    negotiate a resolution to an escalating trade fight with China
    after Beijing retaliated against proposed U.S. tariffs on $50
    billion in Chinese goods by targeting key American imports, but
    the Chinese ambassador to Washington said it "takes two to
    tango."             
        * The United States and China should avoid a trade war,
    China's Ambassador to the United States Cui Tiankai said on
    Wednesday, stressing that Beijing's preference was to resolve
    the dispute through negotiations.             
        * U.S. private payrolls increased solidly in March as hiring
    rose across the board, pointing to a robust labour market that
    continues to underpin economic growth.             
        * The U.S. Federal Reserve does not need to raise its
    benchmark interest rate much further given how close it is to
    the neutral rate, St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said on
    Wednesday.             
        * Investors gashed U.S.-based stock funds, withdrawing
    billions of dollars for the second straight week, Investment
    Company Institute (ICI) data showed on Wednesday.             
        * Holdings of SPDR Gold Trust      , the world's largest
    gold-backed exchange-traded fund, fell 0.03 percent to 852.03
    tonnes on Wednesday from 852.31 tonnes on Tuesday.          
        * Canada's Eldorado Gold Corp          said on Wednesday it
    received a positive ruling from arbitrators on its planned
    metallurgy plant in Greece, but is awaiting mine development
    permits as it considers its next steps.             
        * Ghana plans to review its process for granting corporate
    tax exemptions to mining and oil companies as part of measures
    to eliminate fraud and boost revenues, its vice president said
    on Wednesday.             
    
    
        DATA AHEAD (GMT)
        
        0600  Germany       Industrial orders           February
        0750  France        Markit services PMI         March
        0800  Euro zone     Markit services PMI final   March
        0855  Germany       Markit services PMI         March
        0900  Euro zone     Producer prices             February
        0900  Euro zone     Retail sales                February
        1230  U.S.          Weekly jobless claims
        1230  U.S.          International trade         February
    
     (Reporting by Swati Verma in Bengaluru
    Editing by Eric Meijer)
      
