June 8, 2018 / 1:20 AM / a month ago
# PRECIOUS-Gold steady as investors wait for next week's Fed meeting
    
        BENGALURU, June 8 (Reuters) - Gold prices were largely
    unchanged on Friday as investors remained cautious ahead of key
    events next week such as a U.S. Federal Reserve policy meeting
    and a summit between the United States and North Korea. 
       
        FUNDAMENTALS  
        * Spot gold        was steady at $1,296.60 per ounce at 0052
    GMT. It has risen about 0.3 percent so far this week.
        * U.S. gold futures         for August delivery fell 0.2
    percent to $1,301.10 per ounce.
        * The dollar index       , which measures the greenback
    against a basket of six major currencies, was little changed at
    93.439. It fell to a three-week low in the previous session.
          
        * The U.S. dollar's dominance is forecast to fade soon, with
    any sudden change in expectations for the policies of other
    central banks posing the biggest risk, a Reuters poll of
    currency strategists showed.             
        * Leaders of the Group of Seven rich nations headed for a
    summit in Canada on Thursday more divided than at any time in
    the group's 42-year history, as U.S. President Donald Trump's
    "America First" policies risk causing a global trade war and
    deep diplomatic schisms.             
        * Trump on Thursday held out the prospect of inviting North
    Korean leader Kim Jong Un to the White House if he deemed next
    week's summit a success while also signaling he was willing to
    walk away if he thought talks did not go well.             
        * The U.S. Fed will likely raise its target interest rate to
    above the rate of inflation for the first time in a decade next
    week, igniting a new debate: when to stop.             
        * The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits
    unexpectedly fell last week, pointing to a further tightening in
    labour market conditions.             
        * The euro zone began the year with slower economic growth
    as fears of a trade war with the United States appeared to take
    their toll, official data showed on Thursday.             
        * Russian gold miner Polyus           said on Thursday it
    planned to make a final investment decision on Sukhoi Log, one
    of the world's largest untapped gold deposits, by 2020-2021,
    when it would also begin capital spending on construction.
                
        * Spot silver        prices are poised to reach $20 per
    ounce by the end of the year, boosted by global growth,
    increased industrial demand and safe-haven bids amid
    geopolitical worries, analysts said on Thursday.             
    
        DATA AHEAD (GMT)
        
        *     China      Trade data            May
        0600  Germany    Industrial output     April
        0600  Germany    Trade data            April
        0645  France     Industrial output     April
        1400  U.S.       Wholesale sales       April
    
        *No exact timing
    
     (Reporting by Karen Rodrigues in Bengaluru
    Editing by Joseph Radford)
      
