July 10, 2018 / 1:26 AM / 9 days ago
# PRECIOUS-Gold prices inch up amid Brexit uncertainty, subdued dollar
    
        BENGALURU, July 10 (Reuters) - Gold prices edged up in early
    Asian trade on Tuesday after hitting a two-week high in the
    previous session, amid political uncertainty over Brexit and as
    the U.S. dollar remained subdued.
            
        FUNDAMENTALS  
        * Spot gold        was up 0.1 percent at $1,258.12 an ounce
    at 0057 GMT. The metal touched its highest since June 26 at
    $1,265.87 on Monday.
        * U.S. gold futures         for August delivery were
    0.1-percent lower at $1,258.70 an ounce.
        * The dollar index, which measures the greenback against a
    basket of six major currencies, was steady at 94.028. It fell to
    its lowest since mid-June in the previous session.       
        * Prime Minister Theresa May's foreign minister and Brexit
    negotiator quit on Monday in protest at her plans to keep close
    trade ties with the European Union after Britain leaves the
    bloc, stirring rebellion in her party's ranks.             
        * Britain's ramshackle exit from the EU could damage
    economic growth in the euro zone, European Central Bank
    policymaker Ewald Nowotny said.             
        * Germany and China signed a raft of commercial accords
    worth some 20 billion euros ($23.5 billion) on Monday, with
    their leaders reiterating commitments to a multilateral global
    trade order despite a looming trade war with the United States.
                
        * President Donald Trump suggested on Monday that China
    might be seeking to derail U.S. efforts aimed at denuclearizing
    North Korea, but said he was confident that North Korean leader
    Kim Jong Un would uphold a pact the two agreed on last month.
                
        * The ECB will take a "wait and see" approach to any
    tightening of monetary policy after it keeps negative rates on
    hold through the summer of 2019, ECB Governing Council member
    Ewald Nowotny said on Monday.             
        * The Bank of Japan maintained its upbeat economic
    assessment for all nine regions of the country but some areas
    saw companies fret about rising costs from labour shortages, a
    sign that a tightening job market could constrain business
    activity.             
        * Speculators raised their net long position in COMEX gold
    contracts in the week to July 3, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
    Commission data showed on Monday.        
        * Holdings of SPDR Gold Trust      , the world's largest
    gold-backed exchange-traded fund fell 0.18 percent to 800.77
    tonnes on Monday.          
        * Canadian miner Barrick Gold Corp          and China's
    Shandong Gold             on Monday said they would deepen
    cooperation beyond their Argentinian joint venture, potentially
    working together on acquisitions.             
        
        DATA AHEAD (GMT)
       
        0130  China      Consumer prices            June
        0130  China      Producer prices            June
        0645  France     Industrial output          May
        0900  Germany    ZEW economic sentiment     July
        1000  U.S.       NFIB business optimism     June
        
    
     (Reporting by Karen Rodrigues in Bengaluru
    Editing by Joseph Radford)
      
