June 18, 2018 / 1:05 AM / a month ago
# PRECIOUS-Gold prices inch up on trade war concerns
    
        BENGALURU, June 18 (Reuters) - Gold prices inched higher
    early Monday after falling to a 5-1/2-month low in the previous
    session, as a trade dispute between the two largest world
    economies triggered safe-haven buying.
        
        FUNDAMENTALS  
        * Spot gold        had edged up 0.2 percent to $1,281.41 per
    ounce by 0045 GMT. It touched its weakest since late-December at
    $1,275.01 an ounce on Friday. 
        * U.S. gold futures         for August delivery were up 0.4
    percent at $1,284.10 per ounce.
        * The dollar index       , which measures the greenback
    against a basket of six major currencies, rose 0.1 percent to
    94.895.       
        * U.S. President Donald Trump said he was pushing ahead with
    hefty tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese imports on Friday, and
    the smouldering trade war between the world's two largest
    economies showed signs of igniting as Beijing immediately vowed
    to respond in kind.                         
        * China will impose additional 25 percent tariffs on 659
    U.S. goods worth $50 billion in response to the U.S.
    announcement that it will levy tariffs on Chinese imports, the
    Chinese commerce ministry said.             
        * South Korea and the United States are expected to announce
    the suspension of "large-scale" military drills this week, with
    the provision that they would restart if North Korea failed to
    keep its promise to denuclearise, news agency Yonhap said on
    Sunday.             
        * Syrian state media, citing a military source, reported on
    Monday that U.S.-led coalition aircraft had bombed "one of our
    military positions" in eastern Syria, leading to deaths and
    injuries, but the U.S. military denied carrying out strikes in
    the area.             
        * Dallas Federal Reserve Bank President Robert Kaplan on
    Friday said he would be open to raising the Fed's target policy
    rate a fourth time late this year, but his base case is for just
    three.             
        * Speculators raised their net long positions in COMEX gold
    and silver contracts in the week to June 12, U.S. Commodity
    Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) data showed on Friday.        
        * Australia's South32 Ltd          has bid $1.3 billion to
    take full control of Arizona Mining        , offering a hefty
    premium for the Toronto-listed firm which is developing zinc,
    lead, manganese and silver assets.             
    
     (Reporting by Karen Rodrigues in Bengaluru
    Editing by Joseph Radford)
      
