April 3, 2018 / 1:03 AM / 4 months ago
# PRECIOUS-Gold edges up on rising trade war fears
    
        BENGALURU, April 3 (Reuters) - Gold prices rose slightly in
    early Asian trade on Tuesday after a more than 1 percent gain in
    the previous session, as mounting global trade tensions fuelled
    demand for the safe-haven bullion.
        
        FUNDAMENTALS  
        * Spot gold        was up 0.1 percent at $1,341.68 per ounce
    as of 0045 GMT. It climbed 1.3 percent on Monday in its biggest
    one-day percentage rise in a week.
        * U.S. gold futures         eased 0.1 percent to $1,345.70
    an ounce.
        * The dollar index       , which measures the greenback
    against six other major currencies, was down 0.1 percent at
    90.009.
        * Asian stocks extended a global selloff and the yen rose as
    investors fled for safety as an escalating trade spat between
    the United States and China and a renewed slump in tech shares
    such as Amazon.com          sapped investor
    confidence.           
        * The White House on Monday accused China of distorting
    global markets and said the country should not target "fairly
    traded U.S. exports" after Beijing increased tariffs on 128 U.S.
    products in response to U.S. duties on imports of aluminum and
    steel.                          
        * The Trump administration this week will unveil a list of
    advanced technology Chinese imports targeted for U.S. tariffs to
    punish Beijing over technology transfer policies, a move
    expected to intensify trade tensions between the world's two
    largest economies.             
        * U.S. factory activity slowed in March amid shortages of
    skilled workers and rising capacity constraints, but growth in
    the manufacturing sector remains underpinned by strong domestic
    and global economies.             
        * SPDR Gold Trust      , the world's largest gold-backed
    exchange-traded fund, said its holdings rose 0.73 percent to
    852.31 tonnes on Monday from 846.12 tonnes on Thursday.
             
        * Sales in March of U.S. Mint American Eagle gold fell to
    their lowest for the month, and silver coins dropped to their
    lowest in 11 years, government data showed.             
    
     (Reporting by Swati Verma in Bengaluru; Editing by Subhranshu
    Sahu)
      
