July 19, 2018 / 1:32 AM / Updated 4 hours ago
# PRECIOUS-Gold inches higher as U.S. dollar eases
    
        BENGALURU, July 19 (Reuters) - Gold prices rose slightly
    early Thursday, after hitting a one-year low in the previous
    session, as the U.S. dollar eased off a three-week high. 
               
        FUNDAMENTALS  
        * Spot gold        was up 0.1 percent at $1,227.55 an ounce
    at 0058 GMT. The metal fell to its lowest since mid-July 2017 at
    $1,220.81.
        * U.S. gold futures         for August delivery were little
    changed at $1,227.40 an ounce.    
        * The dollar index       , which measures the greenback
    against a basket of six major currencies, was down 0.1 percent
    at 95.022 after hitting a three-week high of 95.407 on
    Wednesday.       
        * In a closely watched two-day congressional testimony, 
    Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said he believed the
    United States was on course for years more of steady growth, and
    carefully played down the risks to the U.S. economy of an
    escalating trade conflict.             
        * Manufacturers in every one of the Federal Reserve's 12
    districts worried about the impact of tariffs, a Federal Reserve
    report said on Wednesday, even as the U.S. economy continued to
    expand at a moderate to modest pace.             
        * A prolonged U.S. trade war with China and Europe would
    dent global economic growth and force investors to reassess the
    profitability of U.S. companies, some of the biggest hedge funds
    and private equity investors in the United States warned at an
    investment conference on Wednesday.             
        * U.S. President Donald Trump said on Wednesday the United
    States may hammer out a trade deal with Mexico, and then do a
    separate one with Canada later, sowing fresh doubts about the
    future of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
                
        * The White House struggled on Wednesday to contain a
    political outcry and confusion over Trump's summit with Russian
    President Vladimir Putin, denying Trump ever meant to say that
    Moscow was no longer targeting the United States.             
        * Reaching a denuclearization deal with North Korea "may
    take some time," U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on
    Wednesday, reiterating that sanctions would continue to be
    enforced in the meantime, even as Russia's envoy to Pyongyang
    proposed discussions on easing them.             
        * Canadian miner Detour Gold          and activist investor
    Paulson & Co entered into an increasingly heated public exchange
    on Wednesday over the hedge fund's campaign to seek change at
    the company and a possible merger approach.             
        * Venezuela's central bank this year began refining gold in
    Turkey following a wave of international sanctions that have
    left it unwilling to carry out such operations in Switzerland,
    the country's mining minister said on Wednesday.             
    
     (Reporting by Karen Rodrigues in Bengaluru; Editing by
    Subhranshu Sahu)
      
