April 9, 2018 / 1:08 AM / 3 months ago
# PRECIOUS-Gold slips as dollar firms, but trade war fears persist
    
        April 9 (Reuters) - Gold prices fell slightly in early Asian
    trade on Monday as the dollar firmed on signs of easing tensions
    between the United States and North Korea, although the bullion
    was underpinned by continued concerns over U.S.-China trade
    spat.  
        
        FUNDAMENTALS  
        * Spot gold        was down 0.1 percent at $1,331.51 per
    ounce as of 0044 GMT. Prices on Friday hit a more than 2-week
    low of $1,321.16 an ounce before closing 0.5 percent higher.
        * U.S. gold futures         eased 0.1 percent to $1,335.20
    an ounce.
        * The dollar index       , which measures the greenback
    against six other major currencies, was up 0.1 percent at
    90.185.
        * North Korea has told the United States for the first time
    that it is prepared to discuss the denuclearization of the
    Korean Peninsula when North Korean leader Kim Jong Un meets
    President Donald Trump, a U.S. official said on Sunday.
                
        * U.S. President Donald Trump predicted on Sunday that China
    would take down its trade barriers, expressing optimism despite
    escalating trade tensions between the world's two largest
    economies that have roiled global markets in the past week.
                
        * The Federal Reserve will likely need to keep raising U.S.
    interest rates to keep inflation under control, Fed Chairman
    Jerome Powell said, adding that it was too soon to know if
    rising trade tensions would hit the U.S. economy.             
        * Chicago Federal Reserve Bank President Charles Evans, one
    of the Fed's most dovish policymakers, said Saturday that he is
    optimistic inflation will reach the Fed's 2 percent goal and
    that slow, gradual rate increases will be appropriate.
                
        * The U.S. economy created the fewest jobs in six months in
    March as a boost from milder temperatures faded, but a pickup in
    wage gains pointed to a tightening labour market, which should
    allow the Federal Reserve to further raise interest rates this
    year.             
        * Hedge funds and money managers slashed their net long
    position in COMEX gold in the week to April 3 and boosted their
    net short position in silver to a record, U.S. Commodity Futures
    Trading Commission data showed on Friday.        
        * Six construction workers have been killed in an accident
    at Newmont's         Ahafo gold mine in Ghana, forcing the
    surface mine to suspend its operations, a local Newmont manager
    said on Sunday.             
        * Kirkland Lake Gold Ltd         said on Friday 147,644
    ounces was produced in Q1 2018, an increase of 13 percent from
    the first quarter of 2017.            
        * Troy Resources Ltd          said on Monday that the
    Karouni operation in Guyana has achieved a record gold
    production of 21,703 ounces in the March 2018 quarter.
                
        
        DATA AHEAD (GMT)
        
        0600  Germany            Trade data              February
        0830  Euro zone          Sentix index            April
        1400  U.S.               Employment trends       March
    
     (Reporting by Swati Verma in Bengaluru; Editing by Subhranshu
    Sahu)
      
