April 19, 2018 / 1:20 AM / 3 months ago
# PRECIOUS-Gold flat, dollar up on higher U.S. yields
    
        BENGALURU, April 19 (Reuters) - Gold prices were flat early
    Thursday while the dollar stayed firm helped by higher long-term
    U.S. Treasury yields, though lingering U.S.-China trade tensions
    kept the greenback's gains in check.
        
        FUNDAMENTALS  
        * Spot gold        was flat at $1,348.80 per ounce at 0058
    GMT, while U.S. gold futures         fell 0.1 percent to $1,352
    per ounce.
        * The dollar index       , which measures the greenback
    against a basket of currencies, was up about 0.1 percent at
    89.673.       
        * "Robust" business borrowing, rising consumer spending, and
    tight labour markets indicate the U.S. economy remains on track
    for continued growth, the Federal Reserve reported on Wednesday,
    with the risks of a global trade war the one big outlier.
                
        * U.S. President Donald Trump said on Wednesday he hoped an
    unprecedented summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un would
    be successful after a recent visit to Pyongyang by CIA Director
    Mike Pompeo, but warned he would call it off if he did not think
    it would produce results.             
        * Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said on
    Wednesday they had agreed to intensify trade consultations
    between the two longtime allies, with an aim to expand
    investment and trade between both countries.             
        * British inflation unexpectedly cooled to a one-year low in
    March, calling into question whether the Bank of England will
    raise interest rates more than once before the end of the year.
                
        * Russian gold and silver producer Polymetal           said
    on Wednesday its first-quarter revenue rose 19 percent
    year-on-year to $354 million due to an increase in production
    and higher sales of gold.             
        * Demand for physical gold was lower-than-usual during a key
    festival in the world's second biggest consumer India as local
    prices peaked and a cash crunch curbed retail spending.
                
        * Sri Lanka imposed a 15 percent tax on imported gold with
    effect from Wednesday to prevent illegal smuggling of the metal
    from the island nation, a finance ministry official said.
                
    
        
        DATA AHEAD (GMT)
        0800  Euro zone  Current account                Feb
        0830  UK         Retail sales                   Mar   
        1230  U.S.       Weekly jobless claims
        1230  U.S.       Philly Fed business index      Apr
        1245  U.S.       International Monetary Fund Managing
                         Director Christine Lagarde holds news
                         conference ahead of the spring meeting of
                         the IMF and World Bank 
        1400  U.S.       Leading index                  Mar
    
     (Reporting by Eileen Soreng in Bengaluru)
      
