March 27, 2018 / 1:36 AM / 4 months ago
# PRECIOUS-Gold dips as U.S.-China trade war fears ebb
    
        March 27 (Reuters) - Gold prices inched lower early Tuesday
    amid reports of trade negotiations between the United States and
    China, which eased fears of a trade war and improved investors'
    appetite for riskier assets.
           
        FUNDAMENTALS  
        * Spot gold        fell 0.1 percent to $1,352.40 per ounce
    at 0111 GMT.    
        * U.S. gold futures         for April delivery fell 0.2
    percent to $1,352.20 per ounce.
        * Asian share markets rose on Tuesday as optimism set in
    amid reports that Chinese and U.S. officials were busy
    negotiating to avert a trade war. Against a basket of six other
    major currencies, the dollar index        was up 0.1 percent at
    89.07.                   
        * Premier Li Keqiang said on Monday that China and the U.S.
    should maintain negotiations and he reiterated pledges to ease
    access for American businesses.             
        * Top Trump administration officials are asking China to cut
    tariffs on imported cars, allow foreign majority ownership of
    financial services firms and buy more U.S.-made semiconductors
    in negotiations to avoid plans to slap tariffs on a host of
    Chinese goods.             
        * The United States said on Monday it would expel 60 Russian
    diplomats, joining governments across Europe in punishing the
    Kremlin for a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in
    Britain that they have blamed on Moscow.             
        * China called on World Trade Organization members on Monday
    to unite to prevent the United States "wrecking" the WTO, and it
    urged them to oppose U.S. President Donald Trump's tariffs
    targeting China's alleged theft of intellectual property.
                
        * The Federal Reserve should continue raising interest rates
    this year and next so that it can avoid an overheating that cuts
    short the economic expansion that is already picking up steam, a
    policymaker of the U.S. central bank said on Monday.
                
        * International Monetary Fund (IMF) head Christine Lagarde
    said on Monday euro zone leaders should set up a "rainy day
    fund" to help cushion member states in economic downturns.
                
        * SPDR Gold Trust      , the world's largest gold-backed
    exchange-traded fund, said its holdings fell 0.38 percent to
    847.30 tonnes on Monday from 850.54 tonnes on Friday.
                
        * Newcrest Mining         , Australia's largest independent
    gold miner, said on Tuesday it will recommence mining operations
    at its flagship Cadia mine which was closed following damage to
    a tailings dam wall.             
    
     (Reporting by Eileen Soreng in Bengaluru; editing by Richard
    Pullin)
      
