March 23, 2018 / 6:08 PM / 4 months ago
# TREASURIES-Bonds choppy as trade war fears dominate
    
     (Adds quote, spending bill, data; updates prices)
        * Trump signs into law massive spending bill 
        * Capital goods orders rebounded in February
        * U.S. new home sales fell in February
    
        By Karen Brettell
        NEW YORK, March 23 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury yields rose
    from six-week lows on Friday in choppy trading as concerns about
    a global trade war after President Donald Trump announced
    tariffs on Chinese goods kept investors on edge.
        China urged the United States on Friday to "pull back from
    the brink" after Trump said he planned tariffs on up to $60
    billion in Chinese goods, and the Chinese commerce ministry
    warned that the country "doesn't hope to be in a trade war, but
    is not afraid of engaging in one."            
        Stocks markets fell globally as investors feared the impact
    of tariffs on global growth. Treasuries benefited from safety
    buying overnight, before weakening slightly on Friday as
    investors evaluated future moves.
        "We keep going back and forth ... whether we're going to
    have a trade war or not have a trade war," said Mary Ann Hurley,
    vice president in fixed income trading at D.A. Davidson in
    Seattle.
        Bloomberg News cited China's ambassador to the United States
    saying that the country is "looking at all options" in response
    to tariffs, which could include scaling back purchases of
    Treasuries.
        Benchmark 10-year notes            fell 3/32 in price to
    yield 2.843 percent, after falling to a six-week low of 2.792
    percent overnight.
        Trump on Friday signed into law Congress' massive $1.3
    trillion spending bill, which is expected to worsen the deficit
    and increase the government's need to issue more debt.
                
        Data on Friday showed that new orders for key U.S.-made
    capital goods rebounded more than expected in February after two
    straight monthly declines and shipments surged, pointing to
    strong growth in business spending on equipment in the first
    quarter.             
        But sales of new U.S. single-family homes unexpectedly fell
    for a third straight month in February, weighed down by steep
    declines in the Midwest and West.             
    
     (Reporting by Karen Brettell
    Editing by Leslie Adler)
      
     
     )
