April 5, 2018 / 6:17 PM / 3 months ago
# TREASURIES-Yields climb as easing trade fears boosts risk appetite
    
     (Adds quote, updates prices)
        * U.S. willingness to negotiate on trade lifts equities
        * U.S. payrolls data on Friday in focus
    
        By Karen Brettell
        NEW YORK, April 5 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury yields rose to
    one-week highs on Thursday as investors piled back into equities
    as reduced fears of a trade war drove up the appetite for risk,
    and ahead of Friday's closely watched employment report for
    March.
        World stocks rose as the United States voiced a willingness
    on Wednesday to negotiate a resolution to an escalating trade
    fight with China after Beijing retaliated against proposed U.S.
    tariffs on $50 billion in Chinese goods by targeting key
    American imports.             
        "The trade wars aren't escalating, at least not right now,
    there's a little bit more of a risk appetite around the globe,"
    said Justin Lederer, an interest rate strategist at Cantor
    Fitzgerald in New York.
        Benchmark 10-year notes             fell 9/32 in price to
    yield 2.821 percent, after earlier rising to 2.834 percent, the
    highest level since March 27.
        The Commerce Department on Thursday reported the U.S. trade
    deficit increased to a near 9-1/2-year high in February as both
    exports and imports rose to record peaks, but the shortfall with
    China narrowed sharply.             
        This week's major economic catalyst will be Friday's closely
    watched U.S. jobs report, which will be evaluated for
    accelerating jobs gains and wage pressures.
        The U.S. economy added the biggest number of jobs in more
    than 1-1/2 years in February, at 313,000 jobs.
        Analysts noted that March's jobs gains often disappoint. The
    month was marked by several weather disruptions in densely
    populated regions, which could hurt jobs growth and increase
    wage pressures.
        "The rates market are much more sensitive to average hourly
    earnings (AHE), and in months in which there are large numbers
    of individuals out of work for weather reasons AHE tends to be
    biased upwards," said Guy LeBas, chief fixed income strategist
    at Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia.
        According to a Reuters survey of economists, nonfarm
    payrolls likely increased by 195,000 in March.
        The ADP National Employment Report on Wednesday showed
    employers added 241,000 jobs in March.
        Also on Friday, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell is
    due to speak about the economic outlook at an event in Chicago.
    
     (Editing by Leslie Adler)
      
     
     )
