July 12, 2018 / 5:28 AM / 7 days ago
# UK Stocks-Factors to watch on July 12
    
        July 12 (Reuters) - Britain's FTSE 100 index is to open 26 points
    higher at 7,618 on Thursday, according to financial bookmakers. 
        
        * SKY: Comcast Corp on Wednesday raised its offer for Britain's
    Sky in a deal valuing the pay-TV group at $34 billion, challenging a
    raised bid from Twenty-First Century Fox.
        *  BHP BILLITON: BHP Billiton Plc, handed in a proposal for
    a new labor contract to the union at its Escondida copper mine in Chile that
    includes a salary readjustment linked to inflation and a $23,000 bonus per
    worker, the company said on Wednesday.
        * GLENCORE: Glencore Plc faces at least two lawsuits by U.S.
    shareholders accusing the big Anglo-Swiss mining company of having made false
    and misleading disclosures before it received a subpoena in a corruption probe,
    and its stock tumbled.
        * NATIONAL GRID: The growing use of electric vehicles could increase peak
    electricity demand in Britain by between 5 and 8 gigawatts (GW) by 2030,
    National Grid said on Thursday.
        * MICRO FOCUS: Britain's Micro Focus Intl reported an 8 percent
    decline in revenue for the six months to end-April, as it struggled to integrate
    the assets it bought from Hewlett-Packard Enterprise and said it would rack up
    another $210 million in exceptionals. 
        * BRITAIN-EU/BANKS: Britain has given up trying to keep full access to the
    European Union market for its giant financial services sector after Brexit and
    instead will push for an easing of existing rules, the Financial Times
    reported.
        * FRANCE-FINANCING: France will pare back financial regulations to EU
    minimums and introduce new tax incentives to make Paris a more attractive
    finance hub, Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said on Wednesday.
        * COPPER: London copper eased on Thursday after heavy losses in the previous
    session pushed it to its weakest in a year at one stage as trade tensions
    between the United States and China undermined confidence in demand for
    metals.
        * OIL:  Brent crude rose more than $1 on Thursday, recouping some ground
    after its biggest one-day drop in two years in the previous session on news that
    Libya would resume oil exports and U.S.-China trade tensions.
        * EX-DIVS: Halma will trade without entitlement to their latest
    dividend pay-out on Thursday, trimming 0.13 points off the FTSE 100 according to
    Reuters calculations 
        * The UK blue chip index fell 1.3 percent on Wednesday, as the United States
    threatened to slap 10 percent tariffs on a list of $200 billion worth of Chinese
    imports, escalating a trade war and sending jitters across global
    markets.
        * For more on the factors affecting European stocks, please click on: cpurl://apps.cp./cms/?pageId=livemarkets
        
        * UK CORPORATE DIARY:    
     Dunelm Group Plc                         Q4 2018 Trading Statement Release
     Ophir Energy Plc                         Trading Statement Release
     Premier Oil Plc                          Trading and Operations Update
     ASOS Plc                                 Trading Statement Release
     
            
        TODAY'S UK PAPERS
        > Financial Times                     
        > Other business headlines            
     Multimedia versions of Reuters Top News are now available for:
     * 3000 Xtra    : visit topnews.session.rservices.com
     * For Top News : topnews.reuters.com
    
     (Reporting by Harish Bhaskar)
      
