May 21, 2018 / 5:31 AM / 2 months ago
# UK Stocks-Factors to watch on May 21
    
        May 21 (Reuters) - Britain's FTSE 100 index is seen opening up 52
    points on Monday, according to financial bookmakers.
        
        * BRITAIN ECONOMY: British households became much cheerier about their
    financial situation this month, according to a survey on Monday that will
    hearten Bank of England officials who think the economy's weak start to the year
    was temporary.
        * DRAX: British power company Drax will start work this month on a
    pilot bioenergy carbon capture and storage (CCS) project at its plant in
    Yorkshire, northern England, it said on Monday.
        * GLENCORE: Glencore on Friday said it could not comment on a
    report by Bloomberg that it may face an enquiry from Britain's Serious Fraud
    Office into allegations of bribery linked to its operations in Democratic
    Republic of Congo.
        * RYANAIR: Ryanair posted a record annual profit on Monday as it
    brushed off a rostering mess-up that forced it to cancel flights and sparked a
    dispute with pilots, but warned profits would fall back in the coming year due
    to higher costs and no fare growth.
        * MARKS & SPENCER: The outgoing UK and Ireland chief executive of retailer
    Dixons Carphone is in discussion with Marks & Spencer about
    joining the firm's board, Sky News reported on Saturday.
        * GSK: U.S. and European regulators said they were assessing evidence that
    GlaxoSmithKline's HIV drug dolutegravir might be linked to serious birth
    defects, casting a shadow over a medicine that has been a key profit driver in
    recent years.
        * ASTRAZENECA: More than a third of AstraZeneca shareholders staged
    a revolt over bonuses at the pharmaceutical company on Friday, following
    concerns about levels of disclosures and outcomes under the company's incentive
    scheme.
        * BMW RECALL: BMW is expanding a recall of vehicles in Britain,
    which it launched last week, by 88,000 cars to a total of 390,000, in the wake
    of a BBC investigation which found that some vehicles could cut out completely
    while being driven.
        * OIL: Oil prices rose on Monday as markets reacted to news that China and
    the United States have put a looming trade war between the world's two biggest
    economies "on hold".
        * The UK blue chip index closed 0.1 percent lower at 7,778.79 on Friday.
    
        
        * For more on the factors affecting European stocks, please click on: cpurl://apps.cp./cms/?pageId=livemarkets
        
        * UK CORPORATE DIARY:
        
     BGEO Group PLC                            Q1 2018 Earnings Release
     
            
        TODAY'S UK PAPERS
        > Financial Times                     
        > Other business headlines            
     Multimedia versions of Reuters Top News are now available for:
     * 3000 Xtra    : visit topnews.session.rservices.com
     * For Top News : topnews.reuters.com
    
     (Reporting by Radhika Rukmangadhan in Bengaluru)
      
